Yes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. Yes, My Lord, kindly see that. Yes, My Lord. We'll be before we get it? Yes, some... We'll give some... Yes. We'll give some... We'll give some... We'll give some... We'll take it later. We'll read this side. My Lords on that point. Which is the tell you are not clear. So, let me put this example, how long would you use you be arguing first. After you hold me... After you put me? I'll give me a little more. Mr. Sibal's to remain a little bit more than Dr. Sibal. Now,, the time has to... I would suggests that you know we give a really comprehensive of we hearing to the first Council. After that I think the other can become whatever test remain to be argued because if we start giving the same amount to second, then we'll never get know into issue. So one's the ground has been covered by the counsel was argued for us, then after that's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. I think. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. I. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. The's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's right. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. know into issue. So one's the ground has been covered by the... the Constituent, was argued first, then after that the second counsel, then then we'll... For the other side think... So we are... So we'll... Mr. Solicitor, can we just give me the just that you can continue until lunch tomorrow because we starting data after the morning, My Lords, a little more than that because we have to go through the dispute, this is has to be dealt within a historical common common common common common common common common. Alright, My Lords, let me put it this here. I will try and do it. And if Your Lordships, he will be My Lords, that I agree, then if Your Lordships, he will move to the field. We cannot go into the reference also have to be satisfied the affidavit. That conscience also has to be satisfied that it is a.... That's why we do not want to read all the documents and you know that's why we'll read. So Mr. Sibal, that's why we do not want to read. So Mr. Sakh right to the historical wanted. That's absolutely. That's absolutely important. This is very important. This is very great. It's quite of the history. But we'll... We'll... We'll... We'll... We'll get the right. I think we'll get my right in the history. Not not a non-Clause. Yes. Because the... We'll get the question to Mr. Mr. Sankaranar, we'll just see your... Mr. Sibal, Mr. Sibal's Mr. Sibal's a bit for it? Yes. Mr. Sibal, Mr. Sibal, Mr. Sibal, Mr. Sibal, Mr. Sibal, I should say, if you want to do. I think the Hals and teners from Mr. Sibal, My Lord, my think that's a little bit of time, a statement. We'll have to cut down that. And Mr. Narve will also request to cut down your submissions. Yes, yes. I'm asking Your Lordships, I'm asking you one of the... So, once I put it. So let's keep start out out to us. You'll see last time. Let me tell this. This is a answer. Just a answer. Just a answer. Just a answer. Just give me one minute. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'll give me. I'll not now. Please not interesting because as a hearing as the ground. But the point is on the last hearing, almost 90% was... Chief to the hearing. In I think about forwarday, the so forward to five, they have to almost... It's not appearing out the defquestion of the reference on most of the reference on most two judge. It then... I'm sorry, Mr. Attorney General, it was... My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, the question is... I'm sorry. The most parties are huge the better. So the matter. That's not the... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's not the question. Yes, yes. Yes, yes. Yes, yes. I'm the reference. Yes.. Yes. Yes. You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the people to the... You want to go to the... You want to the... You want to go to the... You want to the... You want to the... You want to go to go to... You want to go to the... You want to the... You want to the people to the... You want to go to the... You want to go to the... You want to the people to the people. You want to the... You want to go to the people to the people to go to the people to the people to go to the people. You want to go to go to the people to the people to the people to go to the... You want to go to go to go to go to the people to the... You want to the people to the people to go to the... You want to the people to go to the people to the people. I'm we'll. I'm so to you know. I'm. I'm so, you to the people to the people. I'm You can give me. I was so on. My Lords, I will read to one. But I will take into what I will have to... I will have to say that Mr. Sibal, that Mr. Sibal, that Mr. Sibal, that Mr. Sibal, Your Lordships, the Chief Chief Chief Chief Chief this but... ...Tlavit is need that, but the Court 3, My Lord, on, My Lord, the services was in Bench and here mentioned with the Sub-para. Sub-para. That's the very other provisions in the latest. So Your Lordships are, there are just been the other provisions of the issue of the... 338. I have said that you know, however, I'm saying that you know, however, one thing is, one, the maximum meaning is not available or the maximum order, the maximum order, the maximum who are available or the amendment over. Just an email will put up to my the registration, I'll pass what is immediately. So, if all the... All Your Lordships have another question. But I think... Yes, it's bereaning request which was made until later, 198 yesterday was attended to, I was entitled to, I was entitled to, I was entitled to, I was entitled because I knew that this is going to happen that we are the first five of going to be in a Constitution Bench. All request have been granted. If there something over and about that, they are the protection. You can't follow the issue. I'll give you a judge. You can't give some... Yes. So we'll Mr. Sibal, we'll start. Your Lordship. Mr. Sibal, Justice Sharma, Your Lordships have made a record. Mr. Sharma, I can't just see it what you are saying. Mr. Sharma, I can address it with what you are saying. Your Lordships, Mr. Sharma, which I can address it with what you are saying. I can answer it with what you are saying. I can answer it with what you are saying. I can answer it. You are very clear saying, you are very clear thing. I'm not saying that it is very clear thing that you will be permitted to our argument to our may permit me to argue in the lighter. I'm not saying, allow me to permit me to argue in a lighter or... Let's just outside. Yes, you will be reserved. I think we don't have to... We will also request you or... You are side also, so it will not go back and then... We'll not go back anything. I will not... We'll not... whatever it is. I have to depend in the issue. We'll... We'll... We will not... We will not... We will not... We will not... We will not go to the... Yes. I have to depend in the issue. We will not go to the question. Yes. We will not be... We will not be... We will not be... We will not go to what point. We will not go to the issue. We will not be... We will not be... We. We... We will not go to what point. We'll not go to the question. We will not... We'll not. We... We will not. We will not. We'll not go to what point. We'll we'll see. We'll not... We'll not open. We'll not open. We'll not open. We'll not open. We'll not open. We'll be... We'll see. We'll see that. We'll be... We'll not open. We'll see that. We'll we'll not. We'll we'll see. We. We'll not open. We'll we'll be coming. We we. We what point. We. We'll not open. We. We. We'll we. We'll see. We we'll not open. We. We'll not open. We'll we'll we. We'll see that. We'll not. We'll see that. We'll not. We'll not. We. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, Mr. Dwivedi. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mr. Dwivedi. Yes. Yes. Mr. Dwivedi. Yes. I was appointed to clarification. I was a dilification. Your Lordship. I was appointed, My Lordships, I was a point Law Council, unfortunately, not able to represent as a done with conduct by Justice Bharat. But the Petition Civil 105, 1999, in which Mr. Ramji was appearing. All about two parties have been done there are other Petitioners who has still prosecuting this case and that will be Appresentation for that as well. Alright. That's the point. All right. All right. All right. I am appearing for the remaining petition as Mr. Assam. Every thing I think I've listed, who will be still opening it Mr. Ramji, Mr. Ramji, that's the question of this. Just one thing. Just one thing. Mr. Ramji, we will be reading our written submissions. We'll be... Mr. Ramji, we'll be reading the issue. Weships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, Your Lordships, in the course of course, we'll see, of course we will not will see what remains. We certainly decide at the end of the once we have a two of the leading Council who make their submission. We know what areas to remain, we will assigned from that. Yes, Mr. Sibal would be arguing which petition should that we can have the... My Lords, it's in rates 370. Now, who are, who are, who are asking you to apply. That's what I can say that we can say Lords, I can share it. My Lords, a reading to me, a majority moment. First, My Lords, that Your Lordships should be analysing, why this history was strucked on the six of August 2019. My Lords, that will the procedure adopted by Parliament was consistent with what the North- East's stance, where are we in of the people of Jammu and Kashmir could be silence in this fashion? My Lords, they will be denied represented before a common. So a Chief Act of the Union in Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika Tika. The Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It is also his logic because you will have to interpret Article 356 of the Constitution of India. In Article which seeks to restore the democracy and how do this that process through a an Article which sought to respond to its own democracy. You have designated the democracy. And that we found on a practical 36. That the State of Jammu and Kashmir is sought-equality. We are present to the very unique relationship. Unlike List III states and the States of India, which were integral to the Union. While that is sought-earnation, it's a between sovereign authorities, 11th judgment is, 11th judgment in this fashion, by seeking to amend the Constitution and seeking to defame Article 370, where the My Lords, Governor of a state would have on the 20th of June 2018. decided that I will keep the Chief, the Assembly under such pending and Mishra, which is the power of the Governor alone on the J&K and K Constitution. without even trying to find out whether it can form a government of a minute. Because the Ninth of June of particular party will include support under the 20th of June, the Governor after this order. Whether on the 21st of November 2019, 2018, 2018. My Lords, an additional submission of the Assembly could have taken place before the imposition of Article V. The Governor on the 21st of June, this resolved is, without reference to the ECI-vis. And thereafter Article VIII-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis-vis. And the manner that it was used to levy My Lords, I will read best Your Lordships on the decision. These are issues that will arise for Your Lordships, commit consideration never raised never decided by this Court. So in that sense to the rest of it is a historical context to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. So, we'll have to take Your Lordships through that preced. And if Your Lordships will permit me, we will start with the list of days. simple as all comes in no that all the arguments we have to benefit now or life transfer. So, the arguments are being some other, some material, there's we have some schools in the court on the basis of speech to tax, so forth like in the Maharh Pradesh by the end of the rate, the transfer will be given to the arguing counsels, you're during counsels, but if you want to do, you know, you are doing this very fine that there are no mistake, if there are no mistake, if there are no, if there Like in the Maharashtra case by the end of the date, the tresp will be given to the arguing counsels. You're during this very far that there are no misakes. If they can be given to the registry to the registry so that we will upload them immediately on our side, so they are available for everybody to do. That also also has counselal, for following, because it has to know, let's start with us the rest of dates which is My Lords, Volume 2, which on submissions, Volume 2 PDF page 33. We were elected students with the Government's case. We were elected students with the Government's case. Your Lordships, because it is a little easier for you of favour, what the issues areYes. Third, the PDF page 33, it's called a context one list of dates and he went. So much getting up with dates. That's submit it. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. My Lords may have a state-one on the state, My Lord, before this may have a state-one on the state, My Lord, on the Clause 2, the state, the state here on the premises that the integrity of Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmir and Kashmir, is unquest in Jammu and Kashmir. It was unquest in Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmir. And Kashmir. And Jammu and Kashmir, My Lord, the Jammu and Kashmir was unquested in Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir, and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir. And Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jamm, My Lord, My Lordships, is unquested. The Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmir. That was a given and Kashmir. And this point that My Lords, the words structure state with unconstitutional. When Your Lordships will be dealing with this matter, they would be filled. Let him be dealing with it. One is the Constitution of India. The second is the constitution of India as a liquor-in the State of Jammuu and Kashmir. Third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. And for this Article 370. In the interplay which the three constituents in the context of Article 370. It's something that Your Lordships will have to look at as we move for the Chief's deep that and my. The reason Minesay Constitution of India are applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, that over time, My Lords, we was several orders issued Constitution on August from time which were in Cooperative in the Constitution of India as a particular country. The result was that most of the powers that I'm very that on most of the Respondent is and powers. But actually, in Tika Mehta Constitution. He was in fact, we are no difference. other than Article 370. All the laws were applicable. Except that those laws were replicated in the Constitution, or as of the Government of India. Therefore, there was no reason to take away this right. It's in that context, My Lords, there are meetings. Now, My Lords, I'll put to Mr. Attorney of Bharji, 6th of March, PDF law was executed between Maharashtra, Law, the Bharat Law Law, the Bharat Law, the Bharat Government is something in the transfer of such and Territories to the extent that company. In particular under Article 4 of the 3th July, seats to the Honourable company, all his four, stare in the cases in the field, which country which are situation, which are situation, which will be given by us an interest, including provinces of cash layer and Mazasad. early, I'm mostly, Maharashtra Gulasati General, or our written recognition in 34. RBI came under two, para June and was incorporated into the State of Jammu and Kashmir in 1836 during the silncy, what the Coelho argued in Ranganatha, but the minority felt to better than. That the post claim is the comparative debate by forms topone. The Tip better and common leader in 1947, in 1949, that the entire of part of the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir to be a Minister from 3rd January. On the sixth of March 18-A. In 4rd of six, Volume the 3rd of March, to determine executed the 3rd July, the March 16-A. The 3rd July, the early morning country, with its Independence and the eastern situation in West of Reorgana, including Jammu and Kashmir, and West bound in its country, with its independent and she's situation in the eastern of labour and vest of labour, levy, including Jammu, and excluding the court, West Law, was transferred by the British Government to Maharashtra. The reason was simple My Lords, the... the... the... the... the... the... there was a violation of the Chief of Law, and therefore, compilation had to be deemed My Lords, the British Government. He was not able to be that proposition in view of that proposition. These territorial treaties was seeking into that. On the 3rd of June, My Lords, the 3rd of June, July, and was considered by its Honamble Counsel for earning the passage of the Government of India Act 1858, territorial equality in position under control of the eastern India Committee, the best Citizens of the British Maha Clause 9 in India was to be covered. 1835, my rather, the entire view, and was 6 years by My Lord, a 2006. In 1899, certain cases of August, the interplay Act 1899 was passed by the UK Parliament, Section 18-4 of the Act, if I have the expression, I'm sorry in the Law, all territorial entries and basis within our national opinion, which are for the time being governed by the Prime being governed by the Amarayanan Reddy. In addition, the term India was defined under Section 185 as British India together with any general entries of any negative principles or Chief under the sole entry of a Maharashtra Governor Justice Shah's will be done. The Governor General will be done Jammu and Kashmir is not part of this. In 1920, 25, Maharashtra Pras Singh was suspended by Maharashtra Reddy's class rule of the basic rest of Jammu and Kashmir. And on the 20 years of April 1947, the expression States subject was defined with the State, subject definition notification notification notification unitaryity in 27, which was issued by Maharashtra Reddy. This notification classification classification in the four classes and subsequently became the basis for the definition of Parliament and President of Jammu and Kashmir under the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir under the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir in Article 35A of the Constitution of India. Your Lordship need not go into it because we are not saying dealing with that. I'm just mentioning on the 20nd of April, 1949. The regulation is established in the Regulation, My Lord, some 191. On Entry II, 1935, there is some part My Lord, the Article 57 years that gives the. The regulation established in Legislative Assembly for the State of Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and away 57, then gives that view. The regulation is established, the Legislative Assembly for the State of Jammu and Kashmir's case call the process of our. While certain legislative functions would delegate into the process of a rule, Maharashtra, our understanding remains supremacy over all legislative institution on the second of of August 95, the government of India Act, 1935, was passed by the UK Parliament. The Act establish India's a federalization comprizing Governor problem and says, Chief Provinces, the Indian States, which have a voting seats in the fall relationization of India. Under Section 6 of the said... So that, the rule of Indian privilege was empowered to executed an instrument of Accession, declaring that SC, its consideration of India, subject to the terms of such instrument. And the Section 2 and instrument of Accession was to specify matters with respect to which the federal legislature would have competent to legislate for a particular state and the limitations, if any on the federal legislature's powers to make laws exercising that people authority over such state, no job, as the state of Jammu and Kashmir was not a part of which is in the provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 did not apply to it. Unless an instrument of Accession was executed by its rule in accordance with Section 6 on the 7th of September, 13, the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution Act in 39 was provinces. While Bharathary Singh, we change sovereignty as supremacy over all legislators than Jammu and Kashmir, to make laws for the entire State of Jammu and Kashmir, or any part thereof. Subject to certain conditions further said said Act, best a executive function, with Council consisting of a Prime Minister in other minutes, and other minutes are pointed by the Brewster. The act also provided for the High Court, which had been established by the rule in 58 to be a court of record, which jurisdiction to regulate the duty take it. The one inter alia Cibal Criminal Tribunal and then were very close. On the 6th of May, the 6th of May, 9, the definite Mishandhavis, regarding its report under para 15-1 and 4 of that state. The Governor question land and BJP, Union of India, where the Union would have this of a defense or in affairs in communities and the States would remain distinction over all the subjects, nor all the subjects, nor see it to the Union on the 12th Schedule of the 1949 Act in 46. The definite issue of MMind and Tika, State, speech is in Balat Prakash and Bharat Prakash, which affirmed that following these establishment of an independent government in India, the paramansji of the Petitionana are over Indian States would last and paramamamamammed see power of whether there is a relative territory would return to the states. On 19, the December-1966, because Statutory Assembly of India earlier India terms of the candidate mentioned land made for the first session on the 22th of January 1947. The constitutional Assembly of India University of Punjab, the object seems resolution, which declares the Assembly form and solemn resolved to proclaim India as an independent sovereignary public. Intortly, paragraph 3 of the Uptice-ral Judges, a little resolution declared clear that previously states that joint the Union of India, and I hope whether with their present boundaries is, or which such other has been determined by the Constituent Assembly. And thereafter according to the law of the Constitution shall pause and be tendered in between the stages of autonomous duties to get a with relatable power and exercise all powers and functions of government in administration, say, when accepts such powers and functions as a vitiated in for a silent in the Union of the 25th of January 1947, the Constituent Assembly adopted to resolution. This establishment of the Union powers committee to inter alia draw up list of measures included in the and inter alia, which the sub-group takes to the Union before the framing of the Constitution. On the Shivth July 1947, the Union powers committed its second report, because Tenthituent Assembly. Sri. Sik can be the report noted in paragraph 3 and I could. It is necessary to indicate the position of Indian States in the scheme imposed by us. The states which have joint the Constituent Assembly have thus on the basis of the 6th Amendment. Some of them have expressed themselves as meaning to see, vide up powers to the centres and contemplated in that in that state, but we consider it necessary to point out, that the application to state's internal of the federal list of subjects insofar as 60th may state, My Lord, should be with their concerns, it follows from this, that in their case, immediately powers would vest with them, unless they consent to their besting in the Central and Your Lordship knows that consent was given. The UK Parliament on 18th July 1947, passed the Indian Independence Act, 1947 under 1-A-1-A-1-A-1 of the Act from August-15-1947, to independent opinions, in the Pakistan, what the rest of List, signification, 171-B. The State, that following Independence, the sovereignty of the British Maha over Indian States would tax and be terms of the rules of such States, with although, as sovereign States, as many as 5, 64, 64 states, the State says that the choice to remain independent to accept it to either of the two demands, is established for the Act, last the other transitional measure, Section 8 prescribed that provisions of the Government of India Act. In35, would continue to apply to the MMient India and Pakistan, and Pakistan, subject to certain conditions. The Section 9 of the Indian Independence in the Governor General issued in the Arhishinal Constitutional order 1947, which made certain sections of the Government of India Act 1935, a particular way to India. until July the provincial made by the statute, it, namely on the applicable provisions were Section 6, which dealt with taxation of consequences, State, State to India to the execution of the instrument of Accession on the 50th of August in India, in the essence, and was part issued into the deemers of India and Prakashwamy. Further, as bashrishra Ramji had left, please see the state's that not executed instruments of Accession, with either to mean you can independent states. These includes the States of future fiveth of our moment, Thackeray. On 26 of October 1947, the term of such instrument. Under Section 3 of the instruments of the remaining and Legislature, that the authority to make laws for the State of Jammu and Kashmir on the subject of Tentha, a original provision, Article 7 provides that the instrument of Accession did not commit the rule under the acceptance of any future Constitution of India. While Section 8, Mr. Salad and he was some judges. Not takes into India. In the rule. Just to issue I want to flag here. Youring a constitutional for the future of the ten entries with respect to which the Constitution is to of the. It's essentially a political nexus. Now, legal legal exercise. It's a political nexus, I'll take into account the considerations of people. What kind of State, the people won and in the context of that ground the Constitution. The Constitution itself has a political document. So, the takes into account the activities of several sequence of society, leaving within a US University. Tika ChEarned Territory. Intoxicitor, account their separate observations and in the context of that grounds a Constitution to be the essence in future years for their case to account. So, the exercise of constitute at the Assembly is a political exercise. The draft thing of the Constitution, which is a political nexus right. The draft thing of the Constitution which is a political documents, is a political documents. It is a political argument. It is a political documents. It is a political institution. Once it is a candidate, then all institutions under the Constitution, a college by the Constitution. And those institutions are limited in the exercise of the past because they are to exercise the past assistance of the Constitution. Parliament cannot cover itself into a constituent Assembly. That's done. Today, the Indian Parliament can say by a resolution that we are the Constituent Assembly. As a matter of law they can say, because they are now happy and split done confine by the provisions of the Constitution. The Constituent Assembly which is outside the list. The can pass on under 54. It's a state passage of law, its repugnant. They must be a basis feature of the Constitution. The can pass on the 54. If the State passage of law is repugnant. They must receive the basic features of the Constitution. The concept is sent to the Parliament to rights of people. That also is limited. And the provisions of the Constitution. The executive can't produce to Lords, two things which are contrary to the law. And the jurisdiction is that declares the law. But no Parliament can conferred, it's sent into a Constitution Assembly. And if you accept that proposition of law, it has in no must consequences from the future of my country. And that is one of the most systems and according to be the core issues to be decided. Because Parliament converted said that we declare a Legislature of the State of Jammu and Kashmir as the Constituent Assembly. Where is Parliament get that power? How the Parliament can get that power? How the Parliament can me, the core of the issue, that Your Lordships will have to decide. We are now My Lords with Your Lordship's permission, read the instrument of Accession. Because what happened on the 26th of October, actually, My Lords, the invation so to say was stired on the 20th of October. And My Lords, with his six days these decisions were taken. Because the leaders came there were some, the accounts, they would have gone over the stage, the rule are realizing the Kerala Clause 2 of the secured security, his own people. Yet the entered into a stamped in a agreement with Pakistan in the other cases to enter into a stamped Agreement with him. And then, there are the what happened. We are asking us to what happened was, that he said, look, and he told Maha Karnatnaiah cannot possibly secure the mark by my people. So, there are the minerals, the proceedings starts a huge sorts. He said look, you have to be... I will unconstitutionally, Access to India subject to my own conditions which has separate My Lords from the instruments of Accession and in the accepted, that's how India secured thePs and was able to My Lords. And of course, the Vikasat to that is the Act of what, terms of which My Lords, the part of good was connected Jammu and Kashmir for us two to India was seen into India under thatly for what which allows for that continuity, which on the basic principle of the basis of which the parties who have stood. So that's how all this happens. Now let me read. You have to put tell Your Lordships the instrument of Accession. Volume 1, documents, Volume 1. Yes. Kindly come to PDF page PDF page PDF page Yes. PDF pageYes. Yes, My Lords. Volume 1, My Lords. Yes, My. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I. I need to the note. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to note. I need to the note. I need to the note. I. I. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to, I. I need to the note. I need to note. I need to the note. I need I need to the note. I. I need. I. I. I. I need to the note. I need to note. I'll. I need. I need not. I'll, My Lord, I. I. I. I need to the note. I. I need to the note. I. I'll just one thing. I. I'll just one. I'll just one. I need to the note. I. I'll just one of the note. I'll read. I. I'll just one. I'll just one note. I'll just one. I just one of the note. I. I'll just one of the note. I'll just one of the note. I'll just one of the note. I. I'm sorry. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to go to theYes. My Lords, My Lords, My Lords. Yes, My Lords. Page 47. Yes, My Lords. Page 47. Page 47. Yes, My Lords. Page 47. Yes, My Lords. Page 47. Yes, My Lords documents would include. Yes, Volume 1. So, if you keep it up over? Yes. My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, I have to informed my way. I have to informed, my learned friend, My learned friend form your acceptance that the way of Ajith's case is in Mith's case to be Justice, so we have come to the maximum. As the explanation is over where the State of Jammu and Kashmir is not executed to the division of the community of India out of Pakistan. You can have a particular state is contained in my state's contents to go to the community. It was vital to the Kamm. It was wide. It has by a comprom conamic and cultural next week of them. Biscite My Lord, next week of them. Biscite My Lord, the Solicitor. And that's why I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, in their regional relationship and to bring in a way and Pakistan cannot take no this act. I want to take time to decide to be to recognize a fixed. We'll be equally, My Lords, we wanted to be independent, quite frankly. Given this situation here, not choice for whether it is not in the best interest of both the deememines and my State to stand in effect, because, which rendly, and call the decisions imposed. I according to your process that the opinion is with the impact of Parliament and part of Parliament and to essence till agreement to my state. Pakistan, the TMA and M.V. I could not read this in view of the Tenth Schedule. In fact, the Pakistan Government are operating post-entell in R.V. Mr. Dwivedi, a court of Tenth Schedule will in fact, the Pakistan Government or property imposed interregn system in certain the State. The view of got a stands delay agreement with the Pakistan Government, permitted, and increased regulation, of lines like votes and better than its state. The Ministry of reading his so and drink and just for Articless, with modern happens have been allowed to infilquent. In the State, in whom and then in its own court, the Chief Report for the community and Mishra, assuming as are Rajisting. And the Ramji's case, the result has been submitted number of issues and the result of the State, at the interest of the latter stage, the several points, seventh Amendment, that in his... that in his become difficult to stop the wanted discussion of like and property. And do you see? The Maharas Rao has which applies a elected current of the whole of the whole of Shinde having been mentioned. The number of way may be deleted. And we next My Lord, the while forth is thus led to some state, I'm mentioning on with the am of C.V. Narvekar. So, my capital of the moment government, as first test to overall on the whole state. The Maste in relation of the knowing of the provincial Government of the end of view as the and the Government of Pakistan. In spite of the Chief Chief request made by my Government, no attempt has been made to cheries status or a stop from government to my state. The Pakistan, PDF, even up, this put out a stolen in a provincial government has been set up, and Kashmir. People almost most simply, the postim Sena Muslim Conference, both completely, I've taken no part at all. With the conditions of Tenth Act present in my State and to the great of Baijnancy of the situation as in this I say, no auction. I have no options. I have no options. I have no auction, but to us for held from the Indian Union. Naturally, the Karnat and the help us for by way, My Lord, my State, reading with the community. I have before the Legislative issue and tax the instrument of Accession for acceptance by your Government. The other alternative is to leave my state in my people has to see details on this basis, no symbol. I'll come to this, or we mentioned the alternative. I will never allow to happen as long as I have to state and I have to depend upon the country. I will form your written as his Government that it is my intention. answer a protection in Government in our sector of the latter category, the Respondent is in this Mines and with my Prime Minister. If my State has been stamped to BJP Justice, must be available. Shinde, Mr. Mamanan has fully aware of the situation and he will extend to you. If on the next permission, he'll read this and we's conducted. My Lordships may just a history of fact, at point, My Lords, say, from Karnat Poudnao's in this. And My Lords, and he had been always, My Lords, against the rule, it was he wanted to be the people of Jammu and Kashmir. And not a Chief ruling. So he was against the general. The sub-section. So, My Lords, when he relies, then no. And that's, I get it on my side. I am not going to be able to defame. So we will... My Lords, we'll see it to the moment that I take somebody's name. They've been other side. Just a Yes. I know that, but I want to bring all a takes into it. I don't think that it is neither there be the other side. No. No. No, no. No, no. No, no. No, no. No, no. No, no. I don't find a person of very strongYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. So, My Lords, now, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lord, My Lord, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lord, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lord, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lord, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lord, My Lords, My Lords, My So, My Lords, now, in Mr. Ramji, page 89. Your Lordship knows, My Lords, Your Lordship knows, My Lords, what have been made? So My Lord, we always keep it. This is my learned colleagues, I was very interesting step in, Mr. Choudh, My Lords, the transfer of our documents is to how this happened, but we keep it in My Lords, choice. No choice. We will never wanted to see even. Never, no choice. So My Lords, we have azeez Basha. So My Lords, page 9, where as the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides for its own. So, as the Indian Independence Act, in 1947, provides in the Independence Act, the other paragraph, has considered a part from Brewster. He now come on 52. It's only in to go back that this Act, where as the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides that as from the 50th of its 1947. This shall be set up in the independent opinion on its India. And that the Government of India Act 1935 shall, shall, which such objections are absent in whatifications of the Union General may be ordinified. We have taken to the Min over to the community. And where is the Government of India Act 1935, as so adopted by the Governor General provides that in Indian State may exceed to the opinion of India by the Arbitration Act, to make Section 89 of the University. Now, therefore, I've shown in this, my interpretation. My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, will be read, My Lord, will be read with Article 182. in this My Lords, in the Rajya Sabha are not saying, but I'm going to show that. I'm moving to Mr. Attorney General is 30 minutes. Please, Mr. Attorney General, the Chief Justice, this... They shall be... Rule of Jammu and Kashmir, State in the exercise of Muslim University in Jammu and Kashmir, State, Dwivedi. Iyer by declared the opinion of India with the intent of India with the intent of India with the of India, the MMient Legislature of federal court in any other deemn authorities, established for the purposes of the MMient, shall by virtue of this history. This might instrument to fixation. But subject always to the ground thereof. And for the purposes only of the MMion exercise in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Such functions, as may be bestitted done by or under the Government of India Act 1935, as inforce in the Jammu and Kashmir. Such function, then we will be best. I may be by assuming the obligation of ensuring the new defect as given to the provisions of the Act within the state. So far as the honourable therein by virtue opined to the accession. I accept the matter specified in the Schedule here to, as the matters which restraces which the community of may make law for the state. I had by declared that I accept the community of the community of the community of the community of the community of the community is made in the function of relation to the administration of the state of any law of the community has been registered. But the rule of the state, that any such agreement should be construed and have been fixed accordingly. In terms of this instrument of Accession, my instrument of Accessions, it is not be deleted by any amendment of the Act, or the Indian Independence Act 1947. Unless such appointment is extracted by a by a instrument, sub-confidence Act, to the system. Now. Now thing in this institution and power of the opinion, that is stated. To make any law for this state, authorizing becomes the acquisition of land for the purpose. But I'll be able by undertaking taxes for the purpose of a domin which applies in the State, the Ministry is necessary to acquire and I will have their request required to acquire and under their experience or in the lands belonging to me transfer it to their own such ton is maybe agreed or interpretation of agreement determined, my Aritted to be appointed to be appointed. Now thing in this information, we deemed to commit in any way to by acceptance of any future Constitution, if the or to fetter my discretion to enter into an agreement to the Government of India, are really touch which I'm just going to Constitution. In nothing is in instrument to fix the continue and so my sovereignty. In an over the state, or save as provided by or under this instrument, the exercise of any powers of authority and rights now enjoyed by me as a result of the state or the validity of any law, had federal intention in force in this state. They had by the clear and I executed this instrument on behalf of the state. In the any reference to this instrument to me, or to the state is to be construed as including reference to my affairs and the acceptance Your Lordships will find that in 11. Iyer by itself, of Accession, State in this 20th December, 27th December. Ninth June. Ninth June. Ninth June. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December. Ninth December is a Schedule to this is not in this document. My Lords, My Lord, now there is a Sched to this 6A, which is not in this document. But would My Lords, we come in after turn to T document. So, you want to... So, PDF page 76. That has the said in one. All will go page page 1636. PDF page 76. Volume 3, page 76. Volume 3, page 76. Volume 4. Volume 4. Very page 23. Your Lordships might just remember the residuary powers. And like States in India, which vests it under 97 with the Union, vest in the State. This is the interim power to not vests in the relationship of the interim. So, it was mentioned here, through the federal... My Lord, my respectful jurisdiction, actually, the resolution it in bear it was passed by the Constituent Assembly, initial contempl there are three power would be with the states. And it was between the time of that resolution and the eventually of the Constitution that the rest period power. 27 came to the... Mr. Samparanar. But the all accepted did. My Lords, so that's... here My Lords, this issue was. Some bottom 45. Now My Lords, kindly see the Schedule. Yes. Now My Lords kindly see the Schedule defense, labour, in any aforesaid, the MMient NMMMM MM MM MMM MM MM MMM MMMM MMM MM to obtaining with any of the unforce within the Union. Never, the majority in our forth works works, at Ministryal conundante. Yes, I'm sorry, Is, I'm grateful exclusive. Then expand the offense. Like MP, the offense of the country is, the country is, the country is, the country's expression, including the Tika Ramji's person, the parts of the parts of the parts of the Bar of the Bar of the Bar of the Ministry, to million than the Mishra and Mishra and Mishra and Mishra and Mishra and Mishra and Mishra and Mishra's submissions their two regulation of the movements in India, who are, which which is subject to Mr. Aman Symbol has in here or subject to any, accepting State will omitted to places beyond the nationalization. The communication's post-Entellant's including telegrams why I was brought casting. Like form then being in ways, etc. We need not do this, my attention, for an time relationship. The vacation court for an time needs to be enforced. And then My Lords, a class-class-class-class-class-class-classage, of passage and ears. And then X N's election election to the remaining legislature are subject to the provisions of the Act and a minute here under offenses against laws with respect to any... the Arnaiah of the aforesaid matters in quisits and the purposes of any of the benefits of the aforesaid matters and jurisdiction in power of the court's respect many of the Appellant matters. But accept with the consent of the rule of the seeking state, not so as to confer any jurisdiction of power upon any course, others than Courts or an exercise in or in relation to the state. But that's what we are subject with the college's perspective to certain certain entries on the Government of India Act. No, My Lords, the Government of India would have the subject, no, the subject, no, the subject of the state were with reference to those residing in the state, those who had come to the state, those who had come to the state, those who were in Pakistan and came back. So that's a 1920 Act in the Government of India. Yes. So, we are doing this. The word we are in respect entries in the Government of India Act, which reference to which there was an accepted Act, I was an accepted Act. I was an accepted Act. I was an accepted Act. I was an accepted Act. I was an accepted. I was an accepted. I was an accepted. Which part of the Government of India Act. Then My Lords, kindly come back. Come back to Volume 1. Yes. Then come to My Lords, requires from note, one bad to my other parties. That's a placed to it is 12. My Lords, My Lords, My reference of the impel here, the question of the State 6A, Section 3, Section 3, settled by reference of the people mean why in with Resposed to your hi-either, the Union of the Kashmir held, your own forth, to depend the alternative change to protect the large property in our other of the people, my government and I bow withstanding section that you have to decide it to be in fact, taking by a chair-pruled. The former of the Parliamentarian. Theback to theYes. My Lords, My Lords, My Lords,. 38 and My Lord, I've already made to Your Lordships, the acceptance, a more back and so My Lords, we go to 23, 54 it. It won't go back to the list of dates and then we'll go back to the list of dates and I'll give go back to the list of dates. PDF 381. What period you reading? Mr. Khambata, the last of the statutory judgment. I have already dealt My Lords, that the general two related. On the Shiv Sena law, My Lord has that My Lords, at page 23. The rule of Shiv Sena. I'm sorry, My Lord. So, in two, Volume 1, which should frame, if they say, I was reading sub-headed. It's Volume 2, some our written submissions compilation, Volume 2, that's correct. Yes. And of course, Volume 2, serial number 152. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So, My friend, I'm sorry, I'm saying, issue of preparation, and which a copy of interim government was established in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, pending the framable grounds, the state's proclamation inter alia. Incal bench in the fold proclaimulation. This is that volume 6 PDF page 242. Volume IV. Volume IV.Yes. So, if Your Lordship has to have it? My Lords, only to 43, Volume 6 PDF page 242. Your Lordships, My Lord, kindly come to 9.Yes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theAct. At my larger on the Shiv of 1949. That's correct. That's correct. We have to show PDF My Lords otherwise, we'll come toYes. I'm sorry. I wasYes. My Lords, all of them got a composite of the Government of India Act. They were more there for their political... That's all. But they do us. Just wanted to answer Your Lordships on that. In accordance with the creation of my identity, I have from time to time provided for, so decision of my people with the administration of the State. The object of realizing the coal of fulfil permissible governments had earlier agreed is possible and imperseversive of that object have by the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution Act. In 2006, the establishment of the Constitutional Government, the Constituent Counsel of the Ministry, the Muslim Government. The Muslim community resulted of the Muslim community relatable members Government in the council of the Ministry. In Legislature with the majority, that's the process of the majority will elected members and in any definition. I've noted with gratification and prior the process of our made and the legitimate is argument. We put for the immediately submit about political category Constitution. Based on the other tranch as with the current trade rule. For my time, as the Constitution, that even executive disposed about of the Legislature. Now, already appointed the falls to the... from my time, as the Constitutional has a relative resource of the Legislature. The validity appointed the property through my people, say, My Lord, of the law as the held of the Mines and Cements and Cements and Cements and Cements and Cements. The provision I've been mentioning the formation of for the interim category. The formation of the interim category. The Constitution I'm appearing hereby or the Respondents follows the formation of affidavit in a Constitution, I'm putting a bribe, but what he has follows, my Council of Ministry of the Prime Minister in such a minute, as maybe appointed in the Symbol's Minister as maybe appointed in the Symbol's Prime Minister, the Prime Minister. And that's all the Ministry has been appointed, the one point is by which is also been available. I'll take this is for opportunity of giving one again as some of Mr. Amhney. The call sections of giving one again has sort of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse of misuse, both, civil in relation of misuse of the community. My counsel has been just taken a statutory status so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so with the top of principle is adopted by us. The Constitution to be framed by the National Assembly shall provide that, which says, if, if the minority is in continue appropriate provisions, guaranteed to the freedom of Bonds, freedom of speech shall freedom of Assembly. The National Assembly as soon as the word of payment and you Constitution is competing. It's submitted to the Council of Ministry's requirements, et cetera. In conclusion I repeat and court as the word of payment, the new Constitution is completely submitted through the council of Ministry's formation. In conclusion I repeat, and hope that the formation of a public and the Law relationship of the new feature, but fully term of category Constitution, will ensure the contents mentioned Mines and Mines and Mines, My Lord, the people. So, go back to Volume 2, written submissions compilation Volume 2 PDF page 38 and... Mr. Dwivedi, 19, 149, I come to the former is there. The Volume to PDF page 38. My Lords, in a foot-borrow, when there is no claim that time, I have to be excluded. So, always, a claim. I submit any two, but I know about place that you have to step over, I submit. I said, I said, I bow down... Mr. Sibal, My Lord, my raising issue of pro Commission till getting his power and so, to use a university. Who would function is the rule of the State, we don't have to put it to that following his appointment. Would have to say now immunity for everything. So sorry. Now, this is the reason are I'm sorry. Now, this is about in 1947. 27, 247 to Shiv number 49, List III, 194 crores of the situation, inter the Indian Union, wise signing, merger, remains of covenant of the Unionization, the State of Jammu and Kashmir was not a part of this process of integration. That's important. By the covenant of Unionization, various things, the state's entered into covenant with each other to formsing Union Union is, example through a Governor to impose. Your Lordship will not be difficult. This is the Lordship's want. You would have some numerous minutes on the United States of Sawhney. The United States of Sa Sir Roy, Thackeray, Governor and Coelho, Indian other principles, the States form the Union Citizens of India in the Union and Maharashtra, Shiv Sena Governor said to the formation of Patil Shah is Punjab, State Union. Petition, the United State of Rai. The United States, State of Rai State of Jammu and Coelho, the United States are not encroaledit 48 to Citizens number 49, the State of Sao Rao, but they bar a taxed by Mr. Mishra, Rajaswamy, Jammu and Kashmir and Kashindil, Legislature, permitting it to enact laws on all matters in this. One and 3, the common Committee Act in fact, and Kalsal Tribes in its instruments of Accession and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir.V. States, of India Act, in fact, and can so on, previous instruments of Accession and tell into by two letters of the States, that had entered the common issue for twoYes. I'm sorry. Lordship may note that no revival is denuded of Accession was signed by the rule of Jammu and Kashmir. There's no that fact that that's a little more. This symbol of 46th December 1949, should there restrictive rule or the Constitution of India short, to be adopted by the Constitutional Assembly. Shall detail Constitutional Constitution for the state as per the class of India and shall be in Putjee and shall be a court and so the channel of its provisions. 25th of July, the provisions of the Procedent of Procedent of Procedent of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Constitution of India, shall be deleted by the Constitutionally, namely the Constitutional in so far as the people of the State of Kashmir, govern the in nature which in this state and the contemplated Union of Delhi. We don't have to go through that. Because it's all set are set out. Then 26 of January 1950. In exercise of its constituent part, a constituent Assembly drop in the Constitution of India, which was adopted in November 1969. The constitutional of India came into force and Jammi, 26, Tewivedi, Entry 8, Entry 8, Entry 8, Entry 8, Entry 8 and the Indian Independence Act, Government of India Act. The relationship shall have been made the Constitution in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, was test of Article 370 and the regulation that received its formulation. It Article 370 could not be change, you're in a national event. That's My Lords, 26 of January 1950. Same day in exercise of Parliament, the Article 370 of Article 370, the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President issue. This is the first Constitution application to Jammu and Kashmir. And the as to of this order, matters in the first Schedule to the order. What take layer? And correspondence to matters, PDF to the Union of India through the instrument of Accession and subsequently, the power of Parliament to make laws for Jammu and Kashmir was denimch it to such matters For the small paragraph 3 of the already clear, then in addition to Article 1 and 370 of the Constitution. The provisions specified under the second issue, the order would apply to the state and Jammu and Kashmir. It's important to this document. Volume 3 of the documents and PDF page 47. So, it's at page 47. Page 4, page 47. Page 4, page 47. Page 4, page 47. Page 4, page 47. Page 4. Page 4, page 47. Page 4. Yes. This is the first Constitution order. My Lords, and kindly see this is the first Constitution. I'm sorry, My Lords, My Lords, this is the first Constitution. I'm sorry, My Lords, My Lords, and kindly see this is the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part of the first part on the same day on the repugnant day that you're trying to produce. That's a ways. In exercise, the past conferred by Clause 1 of Article 370 of the Constitution of India, the present President in consultation with the Government of the State of Jammu, you'll give me just take into my following. This order issues so and so and so, and so, for the purposes of sub-Clause B of Clause 1 of Article 370 of the Constitution. The matters specified in the first Schedule to this order being matters in in the Union, this... hereby declared to call upon to matters specified in the instantization, determining the Accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to the Union of India, as the matter with regard to which the Tammu and Legislature may be laws for the State and accordingly the power of Parliament to make laws for the State shall be deleted. This is a matter specific in the first Schedule. In addition to the provisions of Article 1 and Article 370 of the Constitution, the only other provisions of the Constitution which shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so of the Constitution. So, of the Constitution, which shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order, and shall so up lines subject to the acceptance and motorifications. Specified and the said Schedule and it will the modification that all references in the said provisions to the rest of Muk. Should be construed as references to the sovereignary are subject of Jammu and Kashmir. So My Lords, look at this first Schedule, you will find this sentence, what I'll engaged earlier in the Instrument of Accession, you'll find leave a little bit, we will also talk to the fundamental detention, the able amount to talk to the provincial detention, for an affairs, the automatic relationship, the rightifications, offense, democratic relationship, United Nations, United Nations, Bharat Pradesh International Conference is war and Biscarao's decisions. Admitted, immigration and Sism from India passed post-posed, BJP's really being by SCLP, all that Your Lordships will find. That's part of the first schedule. And then in the second Schedule, go by Entry 6. I don't... Sorry. I would 97 that it is that. Yes. It's taken up. Yes. They take the entries of the Constitution. It's left from the... Now ask it, My Lords, there are not nine judges. It is a number of the Entry 33. 33, 31 to 41 is Mr. Dwivedi. 31 to 41 is Mr. Dwivedi. It's... I'll come to the court. That's the... That's the... That's all. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. And let's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. And let's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. And let's all right. And let's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all Mr. Solicitor, the only take your example. That's all about it. And List I. This is part of the instrument of Accession Act. That offense, My Lord. That offense, My Lord, after not a particular... Mr. Solicitor, the instrument of Accession has issued you, which is shown was power to speak. It's a right. You can say that it is a more elaborate. No, there Lords, there is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a no... There is a... There is a... We'll read to depend. I'm not saying anything more than that. They related to different to different to extent. That's all right. That's all right. We'll be... I'm a little bit straight out the second should be clearly. If I may be the... One, I'm not the second If I'm not this take one line. Second, I'm not disputed. I'm not disputed. I'm not disputed. I'm not disputed. I'm not disputed. That's all right. Then My Lords, 10C. This Schedule 2, My Lords, this important. Article 172, SC, 72, C, 72, C,A, 131, 33, 1, in the 410. That's one of para. This is by an order. Yes. By a mistake I've got it. Under Article 370. Yes, yes. That's what I told Your Lordship is the initial state. Constitution of India as if we give to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That's all I'm grateful. That's all I'm grateful. That's all I'm all I'm grateful. That's all I'm all right. Now My Lords, kindly see these Section are at 721C, 723, 133, 133, 131, the relevant, 131, 381, shall apply. Subject to the modification that the representatives of the State in the Council of State and the House of the people respectively shall be chosen by the President in consultation with the Government of the State. So that was My Lords, a very action. Articles 54, 15th July subject to the modification that reference is therein to the elected members of both houses of Parliament and to be deleted member of either House of Parliament, should be deemed to include, restrictively, a reference to the represented of the State in B.House, those houses and to each such represented. The reference is to the elected members of Legislative Assembly of the state. The reference is to the character of the state. The reference is to the elected members of the Legislativeancy, you have been able to belaws to and see a Article 346 shall not of line in relation to the State. So, no issue of repugnancy anything like that, they can't, My Lords, for past laws because the residuary power in the State. Entry 59 shall apply subject to the modifications. It after the words until Parliament by lawized provided for the words and the contents of the State to such law has been looked at the top. be inserted. Article 266, Section of life only, its support of the Legislature of List and the public account of India. Article 282, 812, 812, 81, 2, 2, 2, 9, 3, 2, 9, 3, under 7, 3, 3, etc. The alliance of Parliament, the Union. Entry 24, in 324, in a lightersofar as its nature to connection to Parliament and to the opposition of the Whip President, which doesn't apply to the election in the state. 324 and 335 and then provisions of this part, 361 shall apply only as far as it would later. The President, 364, 3, 38 of life. It further, no such amendment, amendment, shall be expected to Jammu and Kashmir. Under the slight by order or the President under Clause 1 of 370. So My Lords, the point that I'm making here is very simple, that the government of the day accepted the fact that our relationship seems with the Jammu and Kashmir Government are on a separate 14, the provisions of the Constitution unless made applicable for a Presidential Law and reiterated by the Government shall not apply. The residuaryly power will vest in the State. It is the State which must pass Clause Government of India Caste under BJP issue repugnancy ground of life. So, My Lords, this state is accepted that'sbia's comes, that has been not really concerned with the Mammu and Kashmir. Now can become back to us two My Lords. I'm sorry, I've been grateful submissions, Volume 2, page 41. So they...Yes. The Constitution is that if the President and passage on notification for the application of any law, the State of Jammu and Kashmir, he has to see concurrence. He cannot do it without concurrence. On such a decade. So it was a collaborating relationship in a sense. There was a constant trial or going on. This is what we wish to do and My Lords, Constituent Counsel, the State, the State, the State, the State, the States, which is why most of the laws remain of the anybody. There was black and law that was left. So in essence, they were incorporated separately in the Constitution of India, in its application of Jammu and Kashmir, what happened to cover the seats of the States. Now I'm saying My Lords, what the submit is the answer is, there's Your Lordship knows. Now, and see, the consequence was Indian-cons. No, because in fact, the basic Karas see, Karas see, Karas see in the Constitution has governed by Entry 36 of List I in the interpretation order. My Lords, it will come later. There was a Judges, it was a judgment that application order. So, I'll come to that. You will come to that. I is subsequently made at that stage. I'll come to that. I'll come to that. I'll give Your Lordships. Just several... this comes in 1950, Entry 54, we have another than a application of that. We are 7, given you on the list of favour and the list of favour or the Ministry. So, where the subjects brought in by the subsequent... I'll just take another. Of course not there. Of course, there was brought in, My Lords. Every state they were brought in there is, we have an order of 52, we went order of 54, we will order of 71 and order of 75. Because the powers were extended, My Lords, then the state My Lords is, after consultation it was done. The added, either with the Union My Lords. When the State itself in its Constitution says that we are integrity into India, there was no question. The Constitution of Jammu Kashmir itself says that we are in integral part of India. So where is the question? We only think that there is a unique structure, system and place, the constitutional structure, which was in place. Which, finally, My Lords, on the 6th of August was done away. And My Lords, with the various respect that I don't use that expression, certainly, My Lords, in Parliament, it was said that we are doing this at a level. Nobody's only the Constitution may be so much. So, it was My Lords, as I said, the Governor of the state and Parliament, and of course, the powers that we, they decided to do this one finding. And trustit up. So My Lords, page 41. The Government of India purports it's paper on Indian States, that if I have the nature of Article 370. The effect of this provision, this is important, which documents were 1957. The effect of this provision is the State of Jammu and Kashmir continues to be a part of India. Nobody is a unit of the Indian Union. And the Union Parliament, My Lord, the institutions to make laws for the State on matters specified either in the Instrument of Accession or by nature petitions with the concurrence of the Government of the State. My Lords, ask, My Lords, that question. Still, will be taken for the purpose of convening a Constitutionally. Lordship knows this is very important. At that time, when My Lords, we became a repugnip, 370 was there and 370 mentions the Constituent Assembly, but the Constitution Assembly, I'll not yet been conveyed in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That was convened in 1951. This might point is that there was this under stamping, between the Government of India and the State that we will... we will... we will allow the Constitutional Assembly which will determine the future courts of acts. We'll determine whether not, in fact, he said, Mr. Sibal, we'll get it at all or not. That is issued. Which is why I've just call a temporary provision. Not for any other reason. Till that chapter of the Constitution. This whole argument whole argument is the temporary provision was 370 was temporary law. It was temporary because between 1950, 1, Mr. Sibal, what is the date of this while. Therefore, 50, 9. I'll give you. Your Lordships at page 121. Just give to the minute. So on the first of main 1950, one, para saying, you've got our. That's all point. What happens the Petitions is My Lords, this prior to 1957. Now, the Constitution and decision, a Constituent Assembly, which was to decide as to what would be the date of Jammu and Kashmir. 15 March 1950 is what I'm told. 13%. 13%. Yes, My Lord. 13%. It's not a little more... It's prior to Ninth. It's prior to Ninth. It's a little more. I'll give it to you. I'll to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. My Lords't correspond the 95, the order deemed correspondence. If you look at the 50 order, it says paragraph 2, the purposes of sub-lause B, 1, Clause 1 of 370 matters specified under the first Schedule to this order, the matter is the Union List are there by the clear, the college forms to matters specified in the instrument of Accession. This wanted to mention it. Para 8, it's so My Lords. First of our... on the first of the first of the learned friends, My Lords, on the first of the 1951, para 8, we all of them. On the first of main-15-1-Agrecy, issued a proper formation, directed the establishment of an elected Constitution for the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Can 20 years of March, 1952 under Article 370 sub-particles I of the Constitution and following Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir. I'm grateful the Chief Justice. Just continue. Where the Chief Justice, My Lord, the give Your Lordships. Just quickly, what? Where is the issue? That's the 33. Because in on Tenthituent Assembly of the pre-A. That's how it was understood is that point. That point. That point is that point. Yes, My Lords, notwithstanding anything in this Constitution. The provisions of Article 30 itself not apply, the relation of Jammu and Kashmir. Now, 138, My Lords, but the party party partylies. That's what 2, 38 was My Lords. It's neither in the Jammu and Kashmir in Foreigners. So, it's the power of Parliament to make laws for the said stage shall be deleted to those matters in the Union List and the con-carned list which in consultation with the Government of the State are declared by the President to call a pointed matters, specifically, the instrument of Accession, signing the Accession of the State to the opinion of India as the matters with respect to which the remaining legislature may make laws for extracted and such other matters in the said list, List as with the contents of the Government of the State, the President had Mumbai order specifically for the specific governments. So, the Ajammji's communication depends for an affairs in consultation for all matters concurrence for all other matters concurrence for the purposes of this Article. The Government of the state means the person for the time being recognized as the President that the merger of Jammu and Kashmir, acting on the advice of the Council of Ministry for the time being enforced in office under the Maharashtra's proposition dated 56th of March 1948. This act explanation was added later and I'll point out after Your Lordships later. It was amended later. This particular next solution. The provisions of Article 1 of this Article shall apply in relation of that state. Such of the other provisions of this Constitution shall apply prior relation of the state subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by a orders specified. Nobody, to apply to the state, which relates to matter, specifically, the instrument of Accession of the State referred to in paragraph 1 of sub-Clause B shall be issued accepted consultation in consultation with the Government of the State. Nobody, that know such order which relates to matters other than those referred to the last proceeding in proviso shall be issued except with a concurrence of that government. In the if the concurrence of the Government of the state referred to in paragraph 32 of sub-lause B of Clause B of Clause 1, or in second provided that to sub-lause B of that Clause B given before the Constituent Assembly for the Constituent Assembly, it shall be placed before suchly for such decision as may be taken there. Notwithstanding anything in the four going1-1-1-1-1-A. This logic, the President may be public, no notification declares that this Article shall cease to be operated. Or shall be opportunity only with such exceptions and from such data is mis specified. Nobody is provided that the recommendations of the Legislative Assembly of the state shall be necessarily necessary for the President of the recommendations of the legislative Assembly of the State shall be necessary before the President's issues in no difficulty. transcriptionces of the Speaker's issues in no difficulty. Although... I'm sorry. The last 32, I'm. This now now, My Lords, we've placed this little bit together. The constitutional. So you had to have a recommendation of the Constituent Assembly to fall 370. That's what the Constitution members themselves thought in 1950. And that opportunity did 6th of August. How do it change? But how long would the... the 10 your of the Constituent Assembly of the State, B. Sub-Inders. Sub-Inders, My Lords, in 51 to 57. So therefore, with the end of the seven years, the very institution of the Constituent Assembly of the State lakhs, then there's no appointment Assembly. That's the point. This is the.... What happens. This is the point. This is exactly the happens is otherwise, My Lords. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that. This is the proviso that this is the point. My Lords, this is the immediately the point. This is the point. My Lords, this is the point. My Lords, this is the point that is the point. This is the point. What we have to be the point. This is the point because they form. What we can an end because a no constituent Assembly can have an independent life. That's exactly the points My Lords. That is my point. The Constituent Assembly in India Iyer, it doctr in the Constitution. That have a life after the Constitution is framed. Nobody equally, the proviso to Clause 3, refers to the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State. This is the subsequent provision says that the President may be by an notification declared that the Article shall cease to be operators. Right. Now the only safeguard is that before the President does that, the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State has to be takers. Now what happens at a point of of time, where the constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist. But that's the point. The President can't issue such an notification of ought to... It can't be an at all. No, after 57, then... Yes, no. That's why I'm asking us to the... That's why I'm making. That's why I'm making. That's one. That's why we are not fundamental issue, which is that notwithstanding the fact that the proviso ceases to apply Clause 3, the substantive part continues to hold the field. Who it is dependent on the proviso? No, which is respective, no, My Lord, with respect, I need provide know if the proviso, if the proviso... I mean there are ways and which can constitute a proviso. But if the proviso ceases to apply by virtue of the fact that the tell here of the constituent Assembly of the State has cease to exist. So, only the substantive part of three still continues to recognize and I'm receive a scheme of 370. The which I'll see the scheme of 370. On the floor rights of My Lords, that is different. And communities, etc. The affairs andcillary matters, My Lords, saying that the Constitution of the State is necessary under 370 for all other matters, the conditions necessary to can you say you do with the concurrence and then the third thing is, if you want to abrogate 370, then it's or amended it, we have to get the recommendation of the Constitutionituent Assembly. So, what is executed to me? So long is it exists. My Lords, I'm sorry My Lords. This is the point My Lords. That's why I've said initiality. The Constituent Assembly has served its term, when a Constitution is framed. So, in which case, then what happened is if you have construction is right. 370, which is essentially a transitional provision. As through the character of a permanent position, it is a transfer. I'm sorry, what you are arguing that there is no constituent Assembly of the state after 1957. That's right. It's a transitional provision between 51 and 1957, when the Constitution, a sensitivity could take that decision. Could take that decision, which was left to the people of Kashmir. The current due after 127. So, Article 3 years become rejoinder, because Chief would Assembly even in the context of Constitution of India's redundant. But there is no methodology. No methodology. No methodology. No, there is no methodology. No, there were consultation with some limitations of some theory. If. 1370 at all. My Lords, even My Lords, the amendments that is made ultimately. They can word the legislature into a Constitution in a separate matter. 1 is interpretation of Clause 3 to Article 370. First, to done independent field of the amendments. So, you're contention is the provision is the provision. They say it to apply, that unless the proviso is not going to do and cannot be resolved. It should after that. That's the question. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. Thank you. Thank you. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That is, what we are absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutely right. That's absolutelyjudgments, My Lord, may kindly ask. We're now, but the fact is in C70, that time the question received was not there, no purpose was. Yes. Yes. I was on to theYes. To accept submission, we'll is to apply. Kindly see, 69. Kindly see, page 69. Kindly see. Kindly see. Kindly see para 5 to Parliament to make laws. That's the part. But 21, My Lords. So 370, 1, My Lords. 370, 1, becomes with a non obstante clause. It overrising the entirety of the Constitution. But, My Lords, the laws three, contain a non obstante clause which overrires Clause 1 is well. So therefore, notwithstanding because 370 one makes special provisions in relation to the job State of Jammu and Kashmir. But 370, but 370, honour of State of Jammu and Kashmir, the non obstante clause in Clause 1 was that period. We're not disputing that. My Lordships, it's putting to me. There is a structure and place that within the Bench by the Constitution in My Lords, 1950, at that time, there was no consequence Assembly. While in the mentioned constituency need not mention it, kindly come to that point of view. What was the reason to mention the situation? In 370, when it was not even in place. Liquor has said, come out of Jammu and Kashmir. Why did the Constitution makers, My Lords, include the term constitute Assembly, because they knew that the constituent Assembly will frame a Constituent Assembly. And there was no limited, the acceptance of sovereignity of the Jammu and the domain of India was complete. They didn't say in the instrument of a cess that we accept the sovereignty of the Union of India for some limited purposes. They accept it the sovereignty for all intention purposes. That acceptance of sovereignty was complete. But there deserve certain rights to them over certain legislative subjects. So, in that sense, the effect was complete. The acceptance of sovereignty was complete. Now, the consistent with that therefore itself, that enclause 3, that the Union of India would have the President of India would have the right to abrogate Article 370. They cannot not the solution that subject to of the Governor General. It's also a request of essence of the Constitution. Not Union of India has no right to till the Jammu and Kashmir. The word is recommendation of the Constitution Assembly. Then they can exercise that while. That's why you talk to a proviso. You can't say that they have the rights sovereign and forget the proviso even the recommendation of the contention Assembly which doesn't exist. Then six, then six, it is State to provide or also goes. My Lords. Therefore, the reason is simple, My Lords. The Chairman is a which was a fact that in S sense, it was mentioned that the Constituent Assembly had the role to play in the abrogation of 370. Otherwise, if Your Lordships says it are no wrote to play. There was no need for 370 of Article 370. And look at the concurrence power even those parts, My Lords, even though, even though, even though, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no only for assistance and he more. Because now you have a Constitution of the Jammu and Kashmir. So that also became most ears. The have to see My Lords, the starting come, for spectrum in the context of the Jammu and sine instrument. The sine instrument. The sine institution. Nobody is to be given. Nobody is to be given. Nobody is to My Lords. There were the speeches that once the period stipulated that the bribe givers to Clause 3 had come to an end. The power under C itself came to, because they've the... We've no long that it's no long that a line. The Constituent Assembly like an India My Lords, can for example to day to day My Lords. They can't be a provision in the Constitution of India with rest. The reference to a Constitutionally, because the Constitutional Counsel itself is worked itself. It's about. It is form the Constitution. Now if it is decided that it would never. I have to get 370. The Constituent Assembly would have said we are at 370. Which is why it was a temporary provision not because of the fact that under the... the... As a Union of India, it was... the Supreme... I was... the Supreme... I was... the Supreme... I was sought, interritting you at the stage. It does may be a spirit in question of Kes Your Lordships. If one looks at Article 370 Clause Clause 1 and Blause 1 and Blause 4 of the Parliament to make laws for the State shall be limited to, it says, matter in the Union List and the concurrent list in consultation with the page in consultation with the Government of states, articulate by the President, Caste upon to matters specified in the issue, but it's actually, Devying expression to of Dr. State to the Union of India. To such other matters in the list, as per the of the State, come out of the state, the President may, the authorized the specified. Yes. Then explanation deals with there what is made by the confidence of the State? Then it says that provided that notes such order, the first proviso provided that no such order which relates to the matters specified in the issue of the state, therefore, to empower a clause B shall be issued except in the Council except in consultation with the government of the state. Right. Before the... that no such order which relates to matters rather than those specified in the last proceeding for us to why you shall be issued except with the concurrence of the Government. That's right. So the second proviso talks about concurrence of the Government. Now if one looks at Clause 2, it deals with the situation where the Assembly of the Government of the State is not there. It deals with the period when the Constitution Assembly was the State was an exercise for the government or the election Assembly was not an existence. And therefore the proviso to Clause 3, will only be applicable as long as the government of the State or there generally is not elected, because election of the Centre, namely will take place after the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitutional Jammu and Kashmir, in that's the Constitution So, it's always in place from Law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, my submission, because that's what appears to be the product of this. Our line of Article 371. What? Clause 2, when it refers to the Constitution Assembly of the State, it is for the purpose of contents of Constitution of the form, creamy Constitution of the State, which had be placed before the Assembly for such decision as may be taken thereof. Correct. The Constitutionally of the State makes the conscious issues, change the Constitutional, but the Constitutional... You can sit in the Constitution that is that the 370 is abrogated. What problem do we? You tell the power. That's why there is a Constituent Assembly. And it says, My Lords, notwithstanding anything in the following provisions, kindly note that, notwithstanding My Lords, 371, 371, 31, 37, 2, notwithstanding understanding of that. So My Lords, the... the university, you start they had the Article by saying, notwithstanding anything in respect to the fore going provisions, that it is notwithstanding the opening part of the said category. There was a government. Yes. Just on the person you want to Assembly of the State. Yes. If you want to submit the Assembly of the State? Yes. So, if you want to read it, you're holding to... as before no existence, he is to open to. Yes. The how do we will compare it in nature of Article 370 will say. That's why because it's temporary because the Constitution of the Assembly had not been for framed. But that point is that point. But not been constituted in 1950, when this provision was added in the Constitution. No. If so, if so, Article 3 goes, then that was Article 370 can never be able with it. Yes, that's the whole point. My Lord. That is our case. Then how do we come to it? It is temporary because when this Article was framed, there was no statute, there were not a statute Assembly. That's the whole point. That is our case then how do this temporary because when this Article was framed, My Lord, there was no constitution Assembly, it was the statute Assembly which would have taken the decision that we will abrogate 370 and merged completely with the Union of India, I can give the state. Because 7% can kindly be clearly, is that the temporary nature of 370 is collective, would apply for some minutes. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That is not right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That is not. That is the right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That is the right. That is right. That's right. That's right. That is. That is right. That is the right. That is our right. That's right. That's right. That's the right. That's right. That's right. That is the whole right. That's right Mishra Reddy. That's right. That's right. In a way, a Clause 3 became owners was once the Constituent Assembly seeks to the same. This is your contention. For from the two, you'll give you to give you to give you to give you to give you to give you to give you to you. Your Lordships is the Constituent judgment. It is the same thing which I have to say the same thing. What I'm saying My Lord, it's trying to say. I am clear, Your Lordships have understood it and I also was under stand Your Lordships what Your Lordships are thinking. So I have to respond to this. According to this company, we didn't keep you on the two questions. And thereafter, after all the statute is the the 70's are temporary. It is there no-confidence. So, when you go away, to remove it to Pammu and the Constituent. Therefore, if it is temporary by its nature, which is why has started by saying, this is a political exercise. That's why I may have started with that submission before Your Lordships. A Constitution of a Constitution of a Legislative Assembly is a political exercise to ensure that we keep a within that territory of a particular region, where asked to take into account to formulate a law and a Constitution to ensure that those aspects are mentioned. The term is is not. This is not a law making exercise. Then they, then they have then they have to frame the Constitution that the Constitution, to ensure that the Constitution to ensure that those aspects to the Constitution to ensure that those decisions are not. This is not. It's not a law making exercise. Then they've dealt with the same the Constitution to take into account those observations. That's how our repugnive came into force. Because there was the 1935 Act, there was Thackeray, it was can't be looked at it. It's not possible. It's not possible. It's not possible. It's not possible. It's not possible. If you look at that, you look at that. If you look at that's talking. If you look at that's not a law. And the matter, you look at that's the matter. And the making of the issues states in your account with that happened because they were knowledge imposed, your stay of on Indian Mishra and My Lord, those larger empire had communities and within those empire, they were upyvers of different language is of different culture of different experts of this one X net law. So, it is the income of the empire that led to the times of the nation state, the treaties of gives that. The 1814, it rebelations. Right. In India, the process was the opposition. It's the only exception. The purpose was just be open. There was this paras. They were existing disparity. They were fixing to rigid. They was stands of the mark of which are which are with your power of the British Crown. They had to be a matter of dates. And of their matters had certain conditions. But then ultimately, the all agreed, for the states that were part of 5, 643, but this particular State of Jammu and Kashmir was an exception and the inception was constitutionally granted in Article 370 and the terms of the explanation was constitutionally incorporated in 370. And the terms of the Section were constitutionally enacted in 370. You can't judges the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and decide that there is then more than wider between this and My Lords, the Act of the Crown. What the difference between this and the ambit of the ambit of Junedy for the Arbitration of Allahabad. Then it's an act of para materia. The I am the Jindia and I have decided when you have Constitutionally, when you have Constitutionally done, you have constitutional ability, My Lords, permitted Your Lordships, that if this is to be done, you have to follow a process, which chose sovereign and authorities, it would be the part, then then then, then it's actually a para number. So, if the legislative exercise carried out, you are some which you may stand a general bench, a temporary provision was be treated for a period of time, after that it is a income of a public servant. Because you can't divide the 52 in the same. I'm just saying. What is that? That's what my... I appreciate. Your Lordships have fully understood what I'm trying to say? What is in that it is... You have a State of Jammu and Kashmir with 2014 million people. That time My Lords, they have no... They have no... They have no... They have no... So, they have on sense. They have on sense. They have no road to trade. If in 1950, it was part of the Union, there would be no issue. The essence that deserve or the people, whatever it is, My Lord, after all this was something that also had international reper of that point. Therefore, that is not possible. No possible. That is why we had to do these things in the manner that it is, but the only way we can wish to that conclusion is by saying that once the period for the work of the Constituent Assembly of the State Casteclan then what is essentially a temporary provision provision, assuming a permanent character in the Constituent Act. Yes, Your Lordship is not. If you are, but if that, have to there is not accepted, then the only basis on which you can really, in a place of petitions here is that, by a certain that if we talk constitution, a contract which was entered into and independent and State and a state in which it has merged so happy is enforceable. It is perspective of what the legislative power of the merger status because the legislative power, both of the Parliament here cannot overrides, My Lords, the debate of 356 of the Constitution. Because what has been used is 366. There's no such power by the 346, the can't, My Lords, take a manner independent state, which accept 70 of an other state. Am conditionally, still say that well, if the Parliament of that state to which, we have a true sovereign that the sovereign duty of is still constrained in terms of the original impact. This can't condition or My Lord. We can't condition and My Lord. We can't condition and an impact of a get a Balmatter. We can Parliament of India and the context of its responsibilities and powers under the Constitution of India, do enact beyond 54. I'm very cognitions that Your Lordships in a Petition Act. This power is exercised under 356. How was that can be exercised under 356. 36 itself with the temporary power? Because what are your trying to say is to me? What are the saying is? What are the saying? You can have said. You can have it. We'll give it to say that... I thought I said, that will not the people is to abrogated. It's a reflected by Assembly. That's why I'm making. You are saying even that's an argument. It can have a right. Right. case would be even then... On that, we have political that case. I would say if that situation is a right. We have political a right. That's not been done. We'll be done at page that at page. My Lords, kindly look at it from this point of view. Kindly see itself at the temporary provision. What is the essential, we can't... if you have to see 56 position, which is a temporary provision to accept a time of the time. Because we are arguing not referring to the interpretation. We can't interpret it Clause 3. Yes. So I'm just saying that it. But we can't read. My Lords, if I looks at it, therefore, it... Yes. So, sub-lause B, to say, such a matter in the said list with the concurrence of the government of the state, the President by way by order specific for. So are the matters which are not included in Clause 1. Before we in can be now the Parliament of the country can legislate with the concurrence, the Government of the State. Now, what is made by the concurrence of the Government of the State. Now, what is made by the confidence of the Government of the State, is specified in Clause 2, as long as there is no legislative Assembly. In that case, it's the Constituent Assembly, which when, which will have the power. Yes. And after the State Assembly has been constituted, then it will be placed before the State Assembly has been constituted. Correct. That's the purport of Clause 2, with that. So that's also what it's found. One. But once the Constitution has been constituted, in of the Constitution of the state. Then it is governed by the proviso in the second provision. So, Clause 1. Yes. It says provided that no such order which relates to matters specified, specified, specific states also also also also also in consultation with the government of the State. concurrence is not required, because all right, put it in the order of Accession, the second proviso applies when it is not included in the order of this. And says provided further that no such order which relates to matters referred to in the last provision, shall be except with the concurrence of the government. So, all that is required is concurrence of the current of the current of the current. But to say that the proviso to Clause 3 will open it even after which is Constituent shall see, appropriate. Not just any for a law, the this Article shall see to appropriate. There's a difference. Actually, proviso one and provided it were a work themselves. Because not your Constitution, yes, it's not what itself found, between continued to apply as long as it is there's concerns of the State Caste right Any between the Constitution in 1957 and is framed. So that there was no Caste that except for the ones. So there were couple of Caste but much ultimately, entries, it's in end. So, there was no Caste of Caste. see, it says notwithstanding anything else for going to impose Article. This Article. Why? We are interpreting since 17. Let's look at it. Let's look at Clause B,C and D for a moment. Please see and D. Coar, two types of situations. That's one. It covers entries of the Union List and the concurrent list. And it covers substantive provisions of the Constitution also. Now Clause B refers to the power of Parliament to make laws for the State here and a restriction, a restricted into ways. First those matters which are governed by the instrument of taxation those entries in the Union List and in the conduct of an List, which are referring to the instrument of Accession insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as insofar as in the Union List and in the control and list, which are refers to the agreement of Accession in so far, is a result's power as to Parliament. Those have to be specified by the Government of India by the President consultation with the state absolute. So, being one refers to those matters in the Union List and the concorrectly is that. We to refers to such other matters in the said relationship in which concurrence of the Government of State of the State is concerned. Right. So, the entirety of B is confined to matters in the Union List and the concurrent list. Correct. Now we come to Clause C. Clause C. refers to substantive Article of the Constitution. Article 1. Yes. Right. Now we come to Clause D and 370, not just Article 1. Right. And of this Article right. And this is not Clause D. Clause 2. Clause 2, such observations of this Article here and this. And this is, now Clause D. Clause D. Of the provisions of this Constitution, My Lord. They shall apply in relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and modification is the President may be covered as specified. Correct. So Clause D now is beyond the ambit of Clause A, Clause A, Clause A, Clause 8, the entries of the Union List and the concurent list. Right? Clause B refers to the other provisions of the Constitution. A part from the Union in the Karnat and Maharashtra. One and 370. This is the problem. Correct. Now look at the proviso to Clause B, the provided provision is that no such order which relates to the matters specified in the instrument of the cess on the State referred to in paragraph 1 of sub-Clause B, can it, shall be issued accepted in consultation for the Government of the State. In other words, the first proviso, refers to the entries of the Union List and the concurent List here. Right. The first proviso refers to the entry is of the Union List and the concurent list. Right. This second proviso, provided further, that no such order. Now, which is such order, which is referred to in the first provision. Therefore, the use of the words such provision, which relates to matters, to matters, to in the last preceding proviso shall be issued except with the concurrence of that government. In other words, the whole area of concurrence consultation and consent is confined to the entries of the Union List and the concurrence. Because that's very clear from the whole scheme. B one matters in Union List and List in the context of encro enc list, be to such other matters in the Union and the current list. Then go to Clause D, Clause D, Clause D, refers to the provisions of the Constitution provisions of this Constitution also, of this Constitution gets. Right. Now subject to it will be the Presidential power, the Presidential power, the Presidential power, the Presidential Parliament or such on the provisions of this Constitution shall apply relation to the State subject to such exceptions and motorifiable order, as specified. In other words, the President is given an encryment to specify which are the provisions of the Constitution of which are applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That is condition by the first proviso. Right. But the first proviso and the second proviso don't relation to the subsequent provisions of the Constitution at all. The only refers to the matters governed in the Union List and the concurring list. first provided. Not the get. It's right. You are right. You are right. You are right. You're right. You're right. You're dealing with the other than these, these are these, the other, the Presidential Order is provided. Not the scheme. He recognizes in hearing in the President. The power to decide which of the substantive provisions is the constitutional apply to Jammu and Kashmir. Now, that power of the President, that is conditions by the first end of the Second proviso. But the first and second proviso to Clause D. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, but that no such order should be deleted. No, no such order means the order referred to in the first provision and the first provision, only refers to Clause 1. Of sub-Clause 1, sub-Clause 1. This is only order. It's order's mind and Mr. Nayand, Mr. Nayandi. Nayandi, you are not getting the point. The point is this that the refers to an order which may be passed by the President making applicable provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, at the observations of ourifications. Now the questions, including the list. Now, what the first provision says is, that no such order which relates to matters specified in the instrument of Accessions specified in paragraph of one of Clause B, shall be issued except with consultation. But that point is only to the entries in the Union List I the concurrence. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. Now the second provision. Now, now, now, the second provision. Now the second provision provides to say, provided, there's other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso. And then... Therefore, which includes these My Lord, no. No, it refers only. It cannot, I'll really why. Nobody for whether that no further, that no such order means which order, the order referred to in the first provision, and the order if questions is not a manner. So the Law is also going to be... You know, I was such order. I'll read. That is the order in the discharge of Parliament. That's not. The also says the same same thing. My Lords, as Mr. Sibal, it is an also by an order. I'm asking to you to do you want to do you want to do it? I'll give to do it. I'll give to you want to do it. I'll give to you. I'll give to you to do it. I'll give to you. I'll give to you. I'll give to you. I'll give to you. I'll give to you'll give to you to you. I. I'll give you to you. I'll give to you. I'll give you to you'll give you to you to you. I'll give you to you to you to you. I'll give you to you to you to you to you to you. I'll give you to you to you. I'll just see you to you to you to you to you. I. I'll. You to you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you. I'll give you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you to you. You to you to you to you to you. You to you to you to you to you to you. You to you to you. You to you to you to you to you. You to you. You to you to you. You to you to you to you. You me to you to you to you to you. You to you to you. You to you. You just. You'll just. You. You to you to you to you to you to you. You. You to you to you. You. You just to you. You just want to you to you. You to you. You just one minute. You. You. You. You to you to you to you. You. You just want to you to you to you to you to you to you to you. You to you to you to you. You just want to you. You just want to you to you. You. You just want to you to you to you to you to you to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll be very happy to me. I'll beYes. That is the first. That is the Lords, kindly see that, My Lords, I in the morning, My Lord, this... There are agencies that 23th of June, I'm saying that 23, the validity has been... We have a very, while it is a little very unforceimate situations and happens in the Islamic State in Ranganatha Ramji. Now that 23 prody's going on independent declares your abrogating your submission. He may... The sentence to the past. There's immediately. If Your Lordships could please, that of course, I'm asking us to that. That's right. That's right. I'll continue. That's right. That's right. mind to the learned Rajya Sabha judicial because it would find another email... even allow me to use a watch to be reading just outside to take orders. I'll come to my Chamber. My Lord, also, can we take to the Honourable Court us? Your Lordships got us.Yes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. Yes. May I just just quickly say, what is noticed is the architecture of 370. Yes. As book Act with My Lords, notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the provisions of Article 370, which will not strike, anything can, in this Constitution, the provisions of Article 370, which will not strike in relation of Jammu and Kashmir. That's done away with now, because those of part A, part B, but we B part, B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. B. part. Yes. The ordinary law making power for the State shall be remitted. That's important. Even the law making power is denitted. Those matters in the Union List and the conquant case, Your Lordships will see State List is not because there is aary power to the State, which in consultation with the Government of the State are declared by the President to call a pointed to matters specified in the instant matter of Accession determining the Accession of the state to the remaining Committee as the matters with respect to which the Jammu and Legislature may make laws in that. So that's that list, My Lords, we saw the list in the morning. So, which is only quid those that Parliament may make laws, but that also with consultation. And consultation is mentioned here itself does, and that will be repeatedly repeatedly repeatedly represented in the provided which mentioned here itself. Correct. That also has to be reconsidered. I'm just one My Lords, where the architecture. That's with consultation. Now you come to be such as a matter that is'll be power of Parliament to me laws. Such other matters in the said list so apart from the list that I'm in the Instrument of Accession such other matters in the said list, this list refers to Union and concurent list. Yes. Owners, only List I and 3, My Lord, Entry. As with the concurrence of the Government. So now My Lords, that law has to be also with concurrence of the Government. So, only with law is that law has to be also with concurrence of the Government. So we are dealing with laws here, lawmakersary power. That's the first, My Lords, limiting of the argument. That's the restriction on the lawmakersing power. That's the law making power. That's the law making power. Conquorances mentioned here in respect of other matters, no proviso required. No. Now, let's read the explanation of the moment. The provisions of Article 1 and this article shall apply. Azeez Basha's provisions of Article 1 and this Article 1 and this Article. The provisions of Article 1 and of this Article shall apply in relation to that stage. So, this is Article 1 and this are 370. It becomes relevant for D. My Lords. Ultimately, now come to these starts with the word, not be doesn't deal with laws. It deals with proclamation and orders of the phrase. Provision is, My Lords. Such a concluding, one and 370. One, My Lords, on that, My Lords, on that, My Lords, we'll not agree with.. So, these are seats as the provisions of Article 1 and of this Article shall apply relation to that state and these says such of the other provisions that is excluding one and 370 shall apply relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and ramifications as the present time may be made or a specific. No, no, just permit me. See cannot be read in isolation without reading sub-group. What one, not the starting thing contained in this Constitution. The provisions of Article 1 and this article, that prior in relation to that stage. So that means, only that Article 1 and this Article 1 and this Article 1 and this Article will apply. That's all in relation to the same. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. If one reason is such of the other provisions, correct, which is one and 370 as well as other than the matter is in the current year liquor. Correct. That also. I agree with if we include the... See, but it's a.... We'll come to that. Otherwise, it's a.... otherwise it's a.... otherwise it's a.... otherwise it's a.... It's a.... otherwise it's a.... otherwise it's a.... otherwise it's a.... otherwise it's a.... It's a.... It's a permanent argument. We'll come to that later, let's... Yes, yes. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's a argument. That's your argument. That's your argument is not a argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's the argument. That's a argument. That's your argument. That's not. That's not going to the argument. That's the argument. That's right. That's not. That's your argument. That's the argument. That's the argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's not the argument. That. That's not. That. That's not. That's your argument. That's the argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's not. That's your argument. That. That's the argument. That's the argument. That's your argument. That's the argument. That's the argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That. That's your argument. That's your undraised even with the concurrence at we forget that My Lord. I mean that argument. Right now, you'll just give us a structure of the argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's your argument. That's not January 1950. That's forget about anything else. It is temporary. Why? Because My Lords, the Constituent is have been Sevenths through. So, it temporary, there is nothing wrong with that. So, if the architecture, I'll come back. So My Lords, I was reading, such of the other provisions of the Constitution. So that is other than 1370 shall and to 38. shell a reply in relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and motorifications as the President in President domain by order specified. Now you come to orders, not to laws. Nobody, provided that no such order, order, order, order, order, order, order, order, regarding coal and coal. The coal, My Lords, specifically, coal. Right. Nobody that no such order, which relates to the matter specified in the instrument of Accession against the end My Lords of the State refers to in paragraph 1 of sub-laws B, shall be issued accepted consultation with the Governor that state. Again a Coal provided further, that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso shall be issued, etc. The concurrence you go to be 102 and 52. So that was the law of the same temporary knowledge orders for the rest of the provisions. Then the two My Lords. If the concurrence of the Government of the state, refers to in paragraph 2 of such law is being of Clause B of Clause B of C to sub-Clause D of that Clause B given before the constituument Assembly for the purpose of creamy the Constitution of the State is convened. It shall be placed before such Assembly for such decision, ambiting there on, same template, opit and D My Lords and they can rejected the denodate. The denodate, that's how you written, which is the instrument of Accession. And if it don't extend a temporary. That's why temporary. That's why temporary. I'm just trying to expand with the structure of 370. You come to it, Clause 3, then I have one question. But that's right. No, but we first... you can come to the other side. We'll be making, which on Monday today. Notwithstanding anything in the forward going provisions. So My Lords, going provisions. So My Lords, My Lords, I'll just see My Lords you can come to the other, we're making, you can come to your learned, which on... until... you can't... anything in the forward going provision. So My Lords, it's notwithstanding the note whichstanding in the beginning of the Article. Please please note that. Notwithstanding anything in the forward point. This Article. So, notwithstanding the notewithstanding in 370. The President and may by public notification declares that the Article shall cease to be operative, yourself, the operative only, which such exceptions and from such date, as he may specify that the record of the constitu of the Constituent Assembly shall be necessary before the President issued such an motive. So if the Constitution, the Constituent Assembly recognizes namely that we want to abrogate 370. Then on that recommendation the present and for disqualification. And this Article is contained in sub-lause 3. Ranganatha, being deemed. So that according to me is the architecture of 370. I have supply this one question on this. In 131 refers to those matters in the instrument of Accession, which have beenceded by the Maharashtra to the Union's Deveniency. The Union's Deveniency part. The two refers to all other matters in the Union and consent list other than what is covered by one. There are some posts. The idea of the Union and the Concurrent list, other than what is covered by one. Now suppose, in the area of the Union under contempt list, something is not covered by everyone or by be to. In other words, it's not, if you were able to those subjects mentioned in the instrument of a session and it is not covered by a way to at all. That power is not entrusted to the State. It was all other than this My Lords. No. No, no. We do say such other matters in the said list, as with the concurrence of the Government of President may argue. It's all which's all matters. Right? Of course. It covers it's a resolution. So you are putting the concurrence of the state. Yes. Now, suppose it is not covered by it, to the sense that there is no concurrence of the state. Right. It's by be one. And you have not taken the concurrence of the state under b two, correct. On such an aspect, the State Legislature cannot exercise power because it's not in the State List, State List I cannot exist. Now, it is the state. I'm on second, which is aary part of one second. The State Legislature, the State Legislatures, authoritative on the State List and the statutory power. The community power came in and when under what My Lords. You know, that has been... The word is an SLP power finding, person is, I'll show that Your Lordships, it's part Yes, it is part of My Lords, all orders of the Government do, but as specifically there is a choice of part of the Constitution. I'll show. I'll see why they had... Yes, yes. Yes. Why are you Mr. Tika it? My Lords, I will be a particular situation where the Parliament can exercise by... I'm not can the state like it. I'll say, if Your Lordships, I will tell them straight. I will not get the State Legislature. I'm sorry. If I will not just point, I will tell, My Lordships, I will tell, My Lordships, I will tell, My Lordships, I will tell, My Lordships, I will tell, My Lordships, I will just take Your Lordships. It's a simple strike you, it's a typo stop. Yes. Which is very different from what is subject back to of 1 and 2, because they do not deal with abrogation of law. To have to sit. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Your of Your Lordships right. And therefore, when we read that power, which specifically conferred on the President here, then proviso, leads it for the time being the proviso. To agree with that interpretation. For the time being just leave the proviso. We can't read the Constitution in this fashion. I can't read an act in that fashion, again, that's the Constitution. How do I read the proviso in the Constitution is telling us on the phrase. But the other question... The question... The question... The expression... Yes, it's a class. III, the interpretation of the Article itself, which is read not the subject matter of 1 and 2, no, it's Subramicitor, the State or the correct. But it deals with complete abrogation of the Article itself, and in that context, you may argue that the argument at the first school was, it will be only, if the connection of the proviso is satisfied that three clause, we will apply. Otherwise, if the conditions of the conditions of the other side. That three clause saying we'll apply. Otherwise, if the conditions of the right. Your Lordships have been generated provided provided provision is 1950. My Lords. The sort that I can say, I can say more than that. Otherwise, no may in some cases, be an exception. It proviso main sum cases being and elaboration there is a reference. Yes. No, no. If the depend upon an issue of the... I'll... So, I saw, some time saying that's another by so one. The record, that the record may be... I'll be in my note. I'll provide necessarily. It's a restriction on the exercise of power. That is referred to enclause 2 My Lords. It paid to interpret, My Lords, trade to existed that, then we'll balance the Constitution Assembly of the state is all of taxes. So, we can be read to My Lords, if the concerns of the Government of the State referred to in paragraph 2, sub- law is one of the second of 2-B of that law is before the Constituent Assembly for the Constitution of that the purpose of framing of the Constitution of that the purpose, Mr. Sibal, you have thought to be treated, when he's refer to Clause 2 sub-classsee, has envip and Clause D, not applicable to Clause C. No, That's again. Because, you will not apply both cases. And therefore, only only, only, only the only point is Clause 2 says that Clause C.V. Clause C says that Clause C.V. Clause C.V. Clause C.V. C.V. C.V. K.V. K.V. S. S.V you read? No, no, no, there is there is something that's vitiing My Lords. The proviso says, provided that the recommendations of the Constitutional Assembly of the State refers to, while I think that My Lords. The purpose is given and Clause 2, provided that the recommendations of the Constitutional Assembly of the State referred to include shall be necessarily for the present before the President before the President before the President before the present judicial such a notification. It is necessary in Article and before he shows it. How can you say it's criterion or that it's a independent depend and clause. It's specific. It's specific how it is to happen. It has to happen before that is the Commission as to have before. In what it refers Clause 3 refers to the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in Clause 2, is, because Clause 2 refers to the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of payment of Constituent Assembly That's exactly. That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... That's the... We get a point. Now, therefore, the reference, the recommendation of which Constituent Assembly, this makes a very clear, that one and only constitution, which was formed for the fram of the Constitution was done, then that purpose is the constituent Assembly is not like a permanent body, like Parliament is a permanent body. And what is the permanent party? The Supreme Court is a pertinent out of money. It's a what he uses is specific purpose, and then after become some counsel of each order. So, this week. Therefore, once the Constituent Assembly had fulfilful its purpose, then the proviso itself has no application. That's the problem My Lords will talk with the problem. The problem of there is, then you are applying applying applying 3 without the provision and saying this is a placit part that it's a President can do it any challenge, without any constitution. It will be one. Just a little broader order. Mr. I will regulate one. That's one... Which we can all. We have also bear in mind, is all these provisions are in part 21. Part 21 is used three expressions temporary function. Correct. temporary provisions are those which are intended to be in existence for deleted period of time. But without a point of termueners, right? A temporary government servant of it. That person is temporary. No, not a limited period of time. But who services are to be terminated. until the service of that person that persons will continue. was in that person will continue. That's that, that's the road concept. You know, absolutely. I'm so grateful means something which necessarily has a termination. Yes. There was some state earlier, go straight. I should some of the Constitutional provision of this part. And third is special. Now we'll see for instance after 370 will get some idea from the provisions after 370. 6, 370. 6, 370, 770. Second, special provision with respect to Maharashtra and 4. 370, 1A, special provisions for Balasah. Yes. Then we get 370, 370, 370, 370, special provisions for many days. That's correct. De-stat of Arbitration and tell Ranganatha Reddy. Establishment of centuries, you have seen A. A. B. F, this special provision for secure and for 65. 370, Ranganatha Reddy. Then I for State of Gasha for the State of Karnataka. Now after these special provisions then, we come to 3702, which continues in so many years. Which continued, which continues in force of law is taking laws. Which then says, shall continue in force, until or repealingended by a competent legislature or by any other like the period court. It just continue before stamping, until its alternative. it is already now we have 370 to A. Power the President to adopt Clause. And it says the President may be order made before the first of November 1957 makes such suggestions and motor vacations. So, this was a transitional provision. That the President had to make those observations by the first of November 1950. So it was a transitional provision. After that the power nexus. So, Sibal, 370, in a was then T.M. T.M. Divan, the provisions relating to the judges judges who as who as who services had to be taken over by the Union of India. Public servant's submissions. So on and forth. And then 392, the power of the President to remove difficulty. So therefore, Part 21 basically covers special provisions temporary provisions and transitional provisions. Now it doesn't use the expression, transitional any ignored. note, or more to the articles. But temporary and special are used in the larger notes to specific articles of Part 21. And 370 specifically uses the expression temporary Act, My Lords. It can be then by reading by saying that the power under Clause 3 goes once the Constituent Assembly comes to an end. really, can go at this into a permanent provision, which it was a contended to be by the Bharat. That's one. Your Lordships are not putting to be, you need to be, you need to be the 370. When it was put in a decade of temporary provision. It had to be, there is nothing there at that point. It had to be, My Lord, there was nothing there as that point in time. It could never be a common and thing. So, why the Constitution then put in in part 21, because, My Lords, it is a separate it relates to particular state, whether the two sovereigns are come together and made a impact which is incorporated and you can part in... But it do't allow the only because... does that be a only way about it. It's not the other side. I'm sorry, I'll give me. But 21. But 21... Yes, there is only with a moment. No, of course, no, of course, no, that's why I think is a separate independent provision and has to be incorporated on its own terms, you can't incorporated. My Lords out of 370 and in Indregarh, 370 and 370 and 370 and 370. 370 is not temporary. 370 is not temporary. 370 is not temporary. No, it's temporary provision which is spectrum. In otherly say, is temporary provision which is temporary. Till such time of the statutory disadvantage. That's all purpose My Lords. Because when the Constitution came into force, there was no such field of the Constituent Assembly even. How did the Constitution at this here? Because there was an understanding. Otherwise, why are we doing in the term, Constituent Assembly in 370? Not anybody else. I'm just going to be done that I should say so. There's one never knows. Suppose it has to be decided not to be within the. There were happens. You have to do what we did to do. You have to do what we did to do. Because there are two types of temporary provisions in Part 21. One type is Article 369 has Parliament had the power to make laws in for period of five years. That. On certain matters, you may not be in the concurrence. So they were temporary with reference to time. Never temporal. Then 370, even if an illustration of a case which is temporary in the sense, it will open it the abrogated. Could it be aming? We just want to abrogated. When we are putting your point, it's actually, we are thinking. I understand that. We have just time the Stamp, My Lords. This is, Your Lordships have always done this My Lords. Your Lordships, this is a very future point. Because we all have to understand. We are just only what we are saying that when you are going to... We are not going to do. We say that we are not going to do. We'll be a totally integrated into India. That's not an issue. We have sets. There's no. As far as... My Lord, our Constitution says we are integral parts from that. So where the question of a moving away from that. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I Constitutional said, all of Constitutional, we like any other State. We don't have to make a Constitution. Then they don't have to make a Constitution of their own in the Constitution of West Bengal. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. The Constitution of their own. The Constitution of the Stamp Duty would say, we don't need a Constitution and all those respectful apply. That powers there. So why was it called a temporary provision, but that had to be decided by the Constituent Assembly. And then you interpret the terms to find out how that power is to be exercised. Because it was Unlike any other state. The residuary power was always with the State. And the Delhi Agreement in 1950 52, I have a brief sense. 70 came with the original Constitution. Yes. The Centre is the Constituent Assembly debates which so, I saw now, why they introduced to me? I'll be that straight away. Yes. I'll give Your Lordships that. That we want I'm saying is what they say, let it see the sensitivity. Volume 8. Volume 8. TheYes. Yes. My Lords, kindly, My Lords, kindly read PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDF PDFget, My Lord. Ranganatha, for the 3535. Yes, Ranganatha. But PDF 1-7 so. Volume 8. Why now we know? No, Your Lordships in this seats, and so, the answer in order to find out what we wish to say, not that Your Lordships have said, but that Your Lordships have said, that is the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same. That's the same way of the other when the rendered word comes to the last. I was very shared thereof problem. It's easier problem. It's easier problem. It's easier problem. It's easier problem. It's easier problem. It's easier problem.'s a layer problem. Mr. Sibal, there are times when you start decating a judgment, discharge the curtailer change on the Scheduled Caste and on the discharge Deitting, with the certain confusion in mind, because that's what you have formed. When you start decating it, then you realize that you are line of his being as wrong because you know when you take the laws in fact as to fall in place when you know, in place when you are against with yourself. Then you will have no no no... It's not going to be a language. Why? By trying to make? I'll do it? My Lords, it's not a preface. Why? Thank you. My Lords, I have to read. I have to read. I have to read. Yes, four. I have to read. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. 4-7. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes, Mr. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes go back. Yes. Yes. Then it says, Sir, this matter, this matter, this matter of this particular Motion relates to Jammu and Kashmir. The House is fully aware of the fact that the State has exceeded to the Jammu and Kashmir and of India. The history of this issue is also well known. The Accession took place on 26 of 2019, 47. Sixth then the State at a che cetera, history. The meaning of this section is that the present that at present on the State is a unit of a federal state namely the Tobacco Minesim opinion is getting transferred into a public which you've been reiterated on 26th January 1950. The Jammu and Kashmir is therefore, as to become a unit of the new repugnant Committee as the House is aware, Accession to the MMion always to place by means of an instrument which had to be signed by the rule of the state and we had to be accepted by the Governor General of India. That has taken place in this case, as House is also aware, instruments of Accession are a thing of the past and the new Constitution will be a thing of the past of the Constitution. The States have been entruted with the said would be public in such manner, that they do not have to exceed for executed or executed a document of Accession to the accession, the purpose of the community. But the amended in the Constitution itself, and in the case of practical all states, other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, their constituents also have been embodied in the Constitution for the role of India. And all those other states have agreed to interfere themselves in that way and except the Constitution provided. This formulation is due to the special why is dismissed, that's the question asked asked. The supremacy is due to the special conditions of Kashmir. That particular state is not yet right for this kind of integrity. It's the hope of everyone, everyone, everybody here that in view course even Jammu and Kashmir, we come back for the same sort of contribution, as has taken place in the case of other states. The present, it is not possible to achieve that interpretation. There are various reasons why this is not possible. Now, I should conferred against of this little later. In the case of other India States or Union of states, there are two or three points which are got to be amenable. They all accepted the Constitution framed for states in Part 1 of the new Constitution. And those provisions have been adapted. So, it's to through conditions of India and Union of states. Secondly, the Centre that is the republic and federal centre, will have power to make laws applying in every such state for human to all humans and con-classures, thirdly a uniformity of relationship has been established between those states and humans and the centre. Kashmir is conditions are the absurd special treatment. I don't want to take much time the House, but I should briefly indicate the special conditions are in the first place, there has been a war-Going on within the limits of Jammu and Kashmir. There was a cease far agreed to the beginning of this here. And that's why I was still on. But the conditions in the State of State are still unquired and a law. They've not settled down, just therefore necessary that the envanious Ministry of the State, be hear to these huge Ninth Schedule conditions. that the administration of the State should be here to these huge conditions under law, by the state is based on by the state is based on part of the state is still in the hands of grounds, we are entitled with the United Nations's State and regarding regard to Jammu and Kashmir, and it is not possible to say now when we shall briefly free from the Central Government that can take place only when Kashmir problem, a satisfy. We said, can the Government to India submitted the insert themselves to the people of Kashmir in certain districts. They have committed themselves to the position that an opportunity would be given to the people of the State to decide for themselves whether they mentioned with the public or which to go out of it, we will also om committed to ascertain the bill of the people by means of a levy society. We'll file that these four conditions are viced. And the impashalatory is the prohibition. This is not relevant. We have to go through. That's the net sentence. That's the net sentence. This is not relevant. That is not relevant. That's not possible. That's why you are... Even the part before the... Yes, not see, My Lords. We have also agreed that the will of the instrument of a Constitution of the state as well as the state of Union jurisdiction. That's why it was a temporary provision. Now, next paragraph. At President, the Legislature, which was known as the Prabass Sanjee Sabha in the State is there, neither the Legislature nor a constituent Assembly can be controlled or a can function until complete, please come to prevailed in the State. We therefore to deal with the government of the State which has represented by its own instance of Ministry of Ministry of opinion or the Legislative Party in the State till a constitutional party in the State. Till a constitutional party comes into B, only an interim arrangement is possible. Which is why I have to step through it and not at one engagement which could that once we brought into land with the arrangement that the existing the case of other investment. This stands Your Lordships, why it is temporary. Now, if you remember the view point that I've mentioned it is inhibible conclusion that the present moment because establish only in. In their interim system, Article 3 or 6A has now got is 3 or 6A. It's a attempt to establish that system. In termant till the Constitutional Assembly to such. I shall now proceed, My Lords, that's not evidence. So, clearly, My Lord, in the earlier, if you an indication why it was interim here and indication why it was interim here and indication why it was temporary. Because there was nothing in place where Justice Krishna Iyer was not working pursuance of the people had to be taken, It was reflected in the pursitute and the... there are four, it was them here. And therefore, 370, My Lords, November this. 1370 is enacted in 1950. At that point in time, nothing is implications. And here in 370, they say you will have together recommendation the discharge by the Assembly. That is dehors the constituent Assembly, I have a informed. It's, para 80 39. Yes. Now, it's very interesting My Lord. Let's read the paragraph, then we come to Clause 2. First then I'll read the paragraph. Then we come to Clause 2. My Lords have that PDF? Yes. Now, My Lords actually maybe My Lords, I should start or it for if Volume 8-1-7-6, at page 166. PDF 1-7-6. Rangan page 4, theYes. In fact, it is in interpretation of the answer before lunch, it is a post of Your Lordshipships have that? I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That'sries a restriction of India States has been legal to 1031-11-A of this Constitution, which applies to the Constitution to introduce the Constitution in the States subject to the modification of the modification to India States, subject to the modification's contained in Part 6A. The issue over as that provision is concerned, I've already indicated in the provisions regarding the Constitution regarding the Constitution in the States subject to the modification contained in Basha's contain in Basha's right. And the solution is, so far as that provision is concerned, I've already indicating the provisions regarding the Constitution of other States could not at present, we have tried to Jammu and Kashmir. This is covered primarily by the instrument of Accession, broadly speaking that legislative power is confined to the three subjects of defence for defence, foreigners in communities. But in the matter of fact, these brought category is included in number of questions which are listed in the instrument of Accession. I believe the include, I believe there number some 22 to 25. Now these articles of fundamental changes in description of the written in Novemberage in a arrangement as a masters in List III of the need Constitution. It is therefore necessary that the items mentioned in the instrument of Accession should be brought in line with the change designated measures of entries in the list of the new Constitution. So Clause 1-B of Clause 6-A says that this existing of mines as for the terms of the new Constitution, should be done by the President in consultation with the Government of the state. That explains My Lords. Clause B, 2 refers to passable decisions to the list in the Instrument of Accession and these decisions could be made accordingly provisions of this Article with the concurrence of the Government of the State. The idea is that even before the constituent judgment Assembly means, it may be necessarily in the interest of both the centre and the State that certain items which are not included in the instrument of Accession would be appropriately added to the list in that instrument. So that administration, legislative action might be further and as this may happen before the Constitutionally Assembly, leads. The only authority from whom we can get consent for the addition in the government of the state that has provided. Then there is the explanation which demands what the Government of the State means the Government of the State, is defined by the Constitution which is now post-b in the first in Jammu and Kashmir. The State as well as the proposition with the Maharashtra issue on Shiv Mishra on Shiv Mishra and the terms of which are as follows. Then kindly come to... Now kindly come to 3 and D. Yes. Second last paragraph in 117, PDF 1-7. Volume 3 and D. The provisions of the Constitution other than matters listed in 1 and D. The least various provisions have been divided to certain categories. The first according to this job is that Article 1 of the Constitution will automatically apply, as you know a slight-declired the tenant of India and includes the minority of the state mentioned in Part 3 and Jammu and Kashmir is one of the States mentioned in Part 3. The other provisions in the Constitution, these will apply to the Jammu and Kashmir's right with the Jammu and Kashmir and Jammu and Kashmir and part 3. The judgment is one of the Constitution. These will apply to apply to the Jammu and Kashmir, the Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmir is one of the State National Conference, which regard to the other provisions in the Constitution. These will apply to the Jammu and Kashmir State with such exceptions and modification has may be decided on when the President issues in order to that effect. The order can be issued to the Shri dissent as per second, that regard to other provisions of the Constitution. Yes. on theply when the present issues and order to be Art effect. Yes. That order can be issued with regard to sub-section mentioned the instruments of Accession, the instrument of Accession, or the after consultation with the government of the case. Yes. Now regard to other matters conferred of the government as to be taken. That's the people and we took a provision. We want and we took. That order can be issued regard to subject mentioned the instrument only after consultation in regard to the other than concurrence. Now, which is not the case, nor is in the contention of the members of Kashmir, who might come into the opportunity of consultations over this starts was finalized. It's not there entrenches that the other provisions of the Parliament. It's not there entrenches that the other is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, that is not the case, My Lord, My Lord, that is not the case, not that is the intention of the members of the Kashmir Government to identify to the opposition of consultation, we was this job, a final result. It's not there in 10th of the other provisions, the Constitutional not so apply. That particular point of view is that, these principles would apply only in cases, whether institutionally apply, and only subject to such modification of exceptions of exceptions, the particular conditions of Jammu and Kashmir, may require. I wish to say that no more about that particular point that the present movement. Then we come to Clause 2. You will remember that separable of these clauses provides for concurrence of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir state. Now, these relatable to matters not mentioned in the Instrument of Accession. And it is one of our commit to the people and government of Kashmir, that no such a decisions should be made, except with the consent of the Constitution of the Constituent Assembly which may be called in the State for the purpose of payment its Constitution in other words, what we are committed to is the these conditions are matters for determiningation by the Constitutional Assembly of the State. This is a minute. Now, you will recall, then in some other clauses of this Article we have provided for concurrence of the Government of the State, the Government of the State, feel that in view of the amendments already entered between the State and the centre, they cannot be regarded as final authority, for the giving of this concurrence, though they are prepared to give it in the interim period. But if they do not give this concurrence, this clause. If they do give this concurrence, the two give this concurrence, the Clause provides that that concurrence to be placed before the Constitution at the Assembly, when it makes on the statutory Assembly, which they whatever decision is nexus to take? What can be clear, then this. The last clause refers to what may happen later or not. Which is why temporary. Now, paragraph 5, you read is with the reference to Clause 2, not with reference to Clause 2, not with reference. Yes. Yes, yes. I'm not saying that My Lords. I'm just reading us, My Lords, it's fine. I am not saying I'm reading it for Mr. Khosa's case so you know, why it is voluntarily. Two and 3 are temporary, no doubt about the voted because they have to be actually agreed upon by the legislature. My Lords, the Constitution, My Lords, the last clause refers to what may happen later on. We have said Article 210, A, which is to 38. We'll not apply to Jammu and Kashmir. The dichot be a common and features of the Constitution of the State and hope it will not be. So the provision is made that when the constitutional Assembly of the State has made and taken in decision, both on the Constitution for that stage and on the wing of federal jurisdiction over the State. The President may on the recommendation of the Constitution of the Constitution of the C.O. Ishwamy and order that this Article 3 or 6A shall either cease to be opportunity or shall be operative only subject to such exceptions in modification as being raised with specified by. But before issues in an order of that kind, the recognition of the Constitution Assembly will be a condition precedent. That explains the whole of the heart. How can make any nothing clear as a minute. I mean, in hands acting in 1233. Caste in Chapter VIII of Provision, except on its terms, where are they are to interpret the Constitution? What is that here to interpret the Constitution? What is that? What is that? Which is inconsistent with the Constitution? Yes, that's the point of the Constitution. What is that? What is the Constitution? What is not here to be deleted by the Azeez Basha, which is inconsistent with the Constitution. Next para. Yes. The term of the state, which is now a party of India, will continue to be a part of India. We'll continue to be a part of India. We'll be a unit of the future federal recovery of India. And the Union Legislature would get jurisdiction to enact laws on matters specified either in the instrument of Accession or by the interpretation with the concurrence of the government of the state and steps have to be taken for the purpose of convening a Constitution Assembly. Intoxuance of which will go into the matters. I have already referred to, when it comes to a decision on the different matters, it will make a document portions to the President who will either abrogate C, or 6A or directed that it shall apply with such modification in any section of the Constitutionally made it? the Constitution of the Assembly of the Act of this Article and I hope the House will carry. This explains several issues. One, why it was a temporary provision. Two, the statute has sevenly had not been constituted that. It was invalid in our Constitution that it will be Constituent and the ultimate of authority of abrogating 300, and the70, would be left to the Constitution. And the plea Commission of that would be a document in the Constituent Assembly. A reference of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution. That is why it was put in. It was not a temporary provision in the sense that it had unitaryity, 370 had to be abrogated. That's not the meaning of the temporary provision that we talk about. In any case, My Lords, it the article. On 10th of the Article. So, the Government of the day was Still at the provisions of Article 370. And according to me, not a constitutional. Not a constitutional provision. Kindly, that 370 is gone. That's why I said. It was lost out under the way do. Nobody has Act. Now, if not your Constitution of that. Such a political act cannot be determined by the Parliament of India, it's not in the remit of the Parliament of India to take a political decision to abrogate 3, and 7. Now we termustate as we more along My Lords, how it was done in what matter it was done. No, no, no, particularly, can deny, the people of Jammu and Kashmir are with the Union, Central integral part. No, but there is a special relationship. There is a unique relationship which is enacted in 370 itself, you can't tell this on that except by falling a process, which is holding by law. So, My Lords, Your Lordship's asking you on the Chief Chief Justice. We'll read this with the debate. My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, kindly see theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do that. I was going to do Your Lordships. I'm sorry. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I was going to give it to you. I'm going to you to you to give it to you to you to you. I was going to give it to you to you. I was going to you. I was going to you to you. I'll just one of the first. I. I was going to you to you. I'll just one of the first. I'll justYes. Please see at pageYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I'm sorry. I was going to mention all the amendments sort, My Lords, all rejected and which you want to know. Not move, which was having, we don't move those, the page... My Lords, time may come to my written submissions, Volume 2 and PDF pages 41. transcriptionaled the rest. We are on the list of dates at the legal where you left. Yes. My Lords, before unless we have three a picture of 370 will be briefly granted. I come, 33 at page the Government of Jammu and Kashmir. The President of the Constitution, the Constitution application application of Jammu and Kashmir, Amendment order 39, model filed Article 54, 500. The Constitution has always been occupied to the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Kashmir. Kashmir., My Lords, Your Lordships will not as each of these orders were issued under B1. D. My Lord, the M. All of these laws. R. D.1, D.1, D.1, D.1, D.1, 10th of June, My Lords, on June, the alternative 52 of the basic principle of committee of Jammu and Kashmir, Constituent Assembly submitted its interim report of the Jammu and Kashmir's Constituent Assembly and Jammu and Kashmir's Constituent Assembly and Jammu and Kashmir's Normally. The form of the future Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir's originally, voting them of 30. The institution of the history do Your Lord Chief shall be termbed. The office of the hate of State shall be relatable. Then My Lords, the next is very important. transcription 15 52, the Delhi Government, Delhi Agreement of 1957, was entering into between the Government of India and the Government of Jammu and Kashmir under this agreement of India agreed that while residered power of the Legislature vested in Parliament in respect of other States in the case of Jammu and Kashmir, such powers based upon the State itself. This is what My Lord, asked be the question. Now, let's kindly be this document, it's very important. Volume 1 of the compilation Lord, page page 30, PDF 13. This was assuming to the agreement. This is My Lords, page 13, PDF 13. This is the same argument. This seems to be some summary of the features of the agreement. Yes. If the summary of what are are protecting what are we not the feature right? Where is the summary taken from? Because the Attorney General will depend on that. The very next page is there My Lord, I will read this. Sheikh, the Pl last Statement to the Constitution in Assembly of the Delhi Agreement to an 11th of August 1950. That's the actual reper. Yes. I can read that My Lords. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I can read that. I. That. That's the actual extract. Yes. I can read that My Lords. I can read that My Lords. That can be there. That's not the original either. The... I'll get to the original... I'll get to the original... I'll have it in any case. What? Yes. That's the... That's the... That's the starting... That I agree with that from the written point. What is that page? 13 is an extract of the original somewhere else? I come very actually. So, when you just have is actually in the page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is actually just that is a sheet more of delay, Statement to the constituent Assembly of the state matters. Yes. Can I read the summary, My Lord, that this is not something that we've been... What are we to talk to the history? What are the history of what are the history? says that in view of the Union Government consistent and taken by the Jammu and Kashmir is the case of the latter, they vest in the State. It was agreed between the two governments that in accordance with Article 5 of the Indian Constitution, persons who have their permission, when not concerned with so and so, so that the Commission. And I can read it. I can read it. I can read it. I can read it. I can I can read it. I can read it. I can read it. I can read it. I can read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I can read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll just. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read it. I'll read formation and I can read it. The two Government has held in accordance with Article 5 persons who have their permission to implement his submission, we can be regarded as citizens with the... Subject with the agreement. That's why I said My Lord. Then My Lords, four is the Union Government agreed to the State Schedule, it's on flag in addition of the Union. But it is agreed that the state Government that the state would not be either to the Union to also recognize the Court before it's at out. How? How are they are satisfied to be deleted? Yes. That was... We'll be done. That was... We'll be done. That was a regard to the fundamental right. Some basic principles agreed between the parties, whether our seats, which was accepted that the people of the states, what we have to have their fundamental rights. But in view of the particular position in which the state was placed, who Chapter relating to Parliament, that's the Indian Constitution, would could not be made applicable to the state. The question which remain to be determined was whether the Chapter on fundamentalization form of the State Constitutional belonging to the State. As a split of the State, so just not My Lords of either Section. Could he with regard to the views, let leave that order to the on the Supreme Court. And then My Lords, there was a made-either discussion, I submit, with regard to the impignancy power of the Government of India and 60 of the Act of 52. Imying the prolevant to proclaim. General the Mazhabi Sikhs, state government, and the exercise of its powers of a defense, item one of the Union List in the event of war, a war-existing and then a fresh amendment would have for authority to take settled Putthav Minessee. The state's del delinication was how were able to President exercising the part of trade and a general remedy on account of internal dispirvers, the judgment of the law, Chief knows was also taken out of the Indian Constitution. Under the relevant time, because there are relevant time, but the States said, we will not allow to be exercised. It is trying to... It is trying to... It's an MP, relevant time by the State says we will not allow to be exercised. That's right. My Lord, at the relevant time. 25. Yes. It was there. It was very much than. This two sums of a particular, it's quite applied to a political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political political politicalgiven the authority of State, it is sense about as it is. What does it reply? I'm going to put it. This is also part of the compilation. This is the compilation. This is the... Yes. Yes. Then My Lords, in order to read the view of the same deligation Government of India reiterated the modification of 3, 52, it is application to Kashmir, while the Election of the following was but in regard to international disability is a request or with the concerns of the Government of the state. That's all My Lords. The parties agreed at the application of 356, dealing with such a special of the State Constitution in the Constitution on the Assembly under 11th August, I agree permission to make a statement, because the House and regard to the Constitutional relationship which ambit and the Union, that the Honourable members are aware, you have to the Constitutional relationship to the Constitution of relationship with Jammu and Kashmir and the Indian Union, that the Honourable members are aware during the last session of the Constitution to Assembly the basic principles committee had submitted a report, Mr. S Roy, recommendations of the future than the State. House, while acceptedly is the recommendations of the Jammu and Kashmir. To present for the Assembly a draft resolution in determining the proposed principles for the Election Act, Highest State, accepting committee will not out. So, Mr. Khambit is reported to the House, since the changes before the J&K in Alcoholic's Respondents and the Indian Constitution, Government of India is right. The Chief shall have tried to discharge with by the present view. The other matters were pertaining to the Constitutional relationship for the state. The Union during the last state of these discussions will be taken necessary it from the Assam Iyer. The My other college in the Government to participate in the thoughts. I'm now going to informed the House that certain and broad principle of the legislative decisions have been trying to between the two governments. They is a my knowledge. The denient's Instrument of Accession which in November the state, Entry 2-A Union of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments in powers of the transfer of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of the instruments of a state which the community could make laws for the State were the Aligarhvis Bharat, the Aligarhney, by the Bill of the revision of sovereignty, which is a normal feature of a federation beyond the past transferred to the Union, the State enjoyed complete, resolution your resource. That's why My Lords, when you need 370, you can't conclude into it My Lords, other than the rest of the Association of a State with the community, would be taken and subsequent to even the Constitution Assembly of India was charge with the task of payment of Constitution. This overriding, the situation is overriding decision was kept in view, in determining the position of this state in the proposed Constitution. early on this it had been agreed, with the two governments, that in view of the special provinces are writing in respect of this state and the fact that the government of India I have shown, its people. They were themselves finally determined of political future, is special position, be accordingly accordingly. In the future Constitution. So's a limited field of the Union powers over the State is ensure. I would have to precisely the Government has been stated by the Jammu and Kashmir, State of the Constitution of the University Assembly of India. The judgment is, we have to look at the Jammu and Kashmir and Kashmir in the Jammu and Kashmir in the Jammu and Kashmir in the Constituent Assembly in the Constituent University. It was the constitutional position of this state was determined in the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of this state was determined in the Constitution of this state was determined in the Constitutional because very important. It's used invalidating, I'll allow ability to fix a side. That is not, My Lords, behind the back of the Union of India anything like that. Then you want to have happened in the future. That is the term, you want to have deleted there. You are that Association will then get based on the terms of the instrument of Accession, it was at this stage that the Constitution position was determined. The represent the represent the represent the represent the represent the represent of the Jammu and Kashmir state reiterated thereof, the Rangan Association within the Jammu and Kashmir state, read the expression. It was also made clear that while the section of Jammu and Kashmir, it was completely in fact, and law to the extent of the subjects enuminulated in this instrument. The Tamil Nadu of the State, which regard to all other subjects outside the ambit of the Instrument of the decision. The people is not. The Ben Given, the word deal of confusion and the unen form jurisdiction of the entire judgment, some interest is people, I would like to point out that the Constitution is confined as court and jurisdiction of the Union and part of the term of the instrument of Accession, with the proviso, they may be extended to such of the letters, as the President and mean in our respectful alliance of the Jammu and Kashmir. This is qua, Lords, because the legal cover in the current list, the special ground of fixing the State, was thus taken into account in under the Constitution of the relationshiphip of proximity. The constitutional of India of the Indian Union, they are clearly in ways is the convening of the Constitution of the Jammu and Kashmir, which would finally would be finally competent in the Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir's State. The ultimate position of the state in respect of the State in respect of the Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir. The state in respect of the Jammu and Jammu and Jamm. The Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir. The is the Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir is the judgment of the Jammu and Kashmir. The Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir. The Jammu and Kashmir. The Jammu and Kashmir. The Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Kashmir. The is still. The judgment would finally would file would file, would file a Jammu and Jammu would fileification of the Constitution of the Jamm. The judgment of the Jammu and Jammu would file would file would be finally, would file the ultimate position of the state of the state of the judgment of the Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jamm of the state of the Jamm. The Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu and Jammu. The ultimate position of the State in respect of the State of the State of its Accession, which would be incorporated as in the Shiv, for my end provisions of the Constitution. That's why I'm sorry. The West really, the North- East, really, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, really, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, My Lord, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the West, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, that, that, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East, the North- East,s. Then, My Lords, originally power, which 9-3. PDF 19. My Lords, there is a gazette of his Judgmentquent. It was agreed that while under the present Indian Constitution, the executive powers, best in the centre. In respect of all the states other than Jammu and Kashmir in the case of our State, the rest in the State itself. This position is compilation is compilation from page 370 of the Constitution of India and the instrument of Accession on this Article is based, we always held that the ultimate source of sovereignty, besides and the people is therefore from the people at all powers and flow. The second stamping is resolved as a people of Kashmir through this Assembly. The transfer from more powers, new two other than shows had branches because of the Union Union. So what happens are immediately under and I'm just. So I will come to that later. Is that Parliament exercise the holder of the people of Jammu and Kashmir? Where they have agreed? Yes. That's what happened. The two copies, the Constitutional Respondent you have saying that we are not the Legislature. We are the constituent Assembly and we will exercise the will of the people of State of Jammu and Kashmir to say that the abrogate itself. In essence, I'm sorry. In essence, I'm what I have is that possible constitutionally is that in ways, by 370 is not an exercise of political power without reference to 370 and can such a power of the exercise in the manner in which Mr. Sankaranarini has a matter of precedent. My Lords, then there is citizenship, we did not go into it Parliament a part of My Lord. 4-group is a PDF My Lords a judgment. I have a judgment. And the... My Lords, the reference is, My Lords, the reference is, My Lords, that I've been a little bit more shall for goods due to the Act and accessed to me. So, my second Constitution where the Governor Justice may be taken to Mr. Sibal. Now, My Lords, I was asking me to Mr. Sibal. I was asking me to Mr. Sibal. I was asking me to Mr. Sibal. And then I was going to allow you to argue. I have to... I'm not going to allow you to argue. I have to make it. I have to have to make it. I have to make it. I'm sorry. 37. 37. And then, Article 3, he's a Article 370 of Article 3 of the Constitution of the President after the definition of the Jind gave issue, notification 45 4, what the finding 370 to include an explanation that the phrase state government mentioned, the guddhavary Rebia are not able to by the Constitution of the Constitution. that was done by the Constitution. That was done by the Constitution. That the only time My Lords, they exercise the powers. With reference to 370. On 4-1935 with the concurrence of the Government Kashmir, the President issued the Constitution, at that stage of the Constitution, to to Jammu and Kashmir's Order, 1957, which came into force on May 14, 1949, the Constituent Assembly. The Constitution, after came into this order, so per se, which had only those limited provisions. Paragraph 2 of the said order said those provisions of the Constitution, which in addition to Article 137, because that order only had Article 137 would be a litigable and other than one side, My Lord, would be a litigable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. No to place a second proviso was introduced into Article 3 as a prior to the State of Jammu and Kashmir in the following grounds, provided that no building for increasing or diminating the area. This loss of very important of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, also thing the nMET of that state shall be introduced in Parliament without the consent of the Legislature of that state. Your Lordship knows My Lords, Article 3 they can change the boundaries. What happened in this case was not, it's a change the boundaries My Lords. They can virtually into a human challenge, which is the other problem of the matter. It issue which you have passed will have to agree with. You can change the boundaries of a state you can, you can bai for it why forget the bond is a large state in the small state, but never in the history of this country, as a state been converted into a union territory. You can come out for you can't come out of a university or covers. You can't come out of all of what they are saying, a union territory to amount. This is the understanding of the system. So, example, Electoral B held the no interpretation in a case. So, that's why they have to answer it, you are getting into a university as a now. I mean that our obligation was done. Under the Article first term, in Kashmir, there was a special provision that that has to be considered to be considered to. That is not not not not not not not not not. So, My Lords, you move away from represented to Mah Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha Prasimha, and what it into a preliminary university on your direct true. You do away with represented the democracy. And five years have passed. Where we are going to show, the Arbitration. But, they have a constitutional basis for doing this My Lords and kindly note one thing. In 2006, 8,000, in 2006, there were parliamentary elections in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. into 2019 in 2019 in early, and early months after this. This happened on the 6th of August, September, but December December, but December December December December, December may, you have Parliament three elections. So you can hold Parliamentary Election, but you may not take it to the Election. My Lords, that's why moving of the international education. So My Lords, 1711, in a 56 because Titur December December, Jammu and Kashmir and exercise of its constitutional power, a protection of the Constitution, which is why I start it up with the proposition that the concept of a Constitutional procedure Assembly is a political election. That political authority that political body and decided of the future of State, would have decided on the future of the State. But that's a political decision. You want to abrogate 370 abrogate 370. You want to go, the integrity will be a completely say, we don't need the Constitution. But that's a political act. That political act cannot be, you know the exercise by Parliament by the Legislative Party. Because that legislative body is controlled by the Constitution, in its functions are controlled by the Constitution. It can't go beyond that, which is why I made that's the... My Lord, that's the day in the beginning. Then My Lords, 40, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, 1950 came into force on Jammu and Kashmir, 26, 1957. My Lords, my means of this Constitution, the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir having sovereign resolved of the present of this state of India, which took place on 26, they have a covers in 1947. To further define the existing relationship of the State of the Union of India, but in integralrag and that's declared in the Constitution. The No only can question that, nobody need question that. Nobody can say that we are not arguing regard to this. We were not saying that we are not entitled to pot to be. Article 1 applies and the Constitution defined that legislation. And having defined that relation. You can't just tell this later. Section 5 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir provided that the legislative power of the state extended to all matters except those will respect which Parliament had power for the state under the Constitution of India as applicable. That's a right. I'm grateful to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Legislative part of the State, which relied with the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council significability Section 147, which dealt with the amendments of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir provided that no bill or amendment, seeking to change the provisions of the Constitution of India as they applied to Jammu and Kashmir would be introduced or more in either of the State Legislative. We had no authority. Once the Constitution will come into force and the order's past, there on 21, 11-19 64, the Constitution application to Jammu and Kashmir, 3rd Amendment or the United 64, that the Clause 17, which amended the 54 order made Article 356 applicable to the State with Mishra Pradesh, that the expression included the Constitution, sorry. It's out. It's due with the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. In fact, I'm included it. Yes. The included the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The judgment is not... It is a university. Yes. It can just give us it. It can just give us it. Volume 3, you have all the order. This, we have now made your point of this. So all the orders, I'm not going to... I'm not asking Your Lordships, My Lords. I'm not going to read it My Lords. We are not going to read it. No, we are not going to do it. 54, or it is other. And 54 order is other ground. 54 order. The sub-groupster... Yes. Of course of the Assembly. Some is come to the Government. And that is or under the... the two or the... The two or the... 81. The 81. The 81, the 81. The 81, the proviso is just deemed. The doesn't have a... And most of them are amendments of the 54 order. 50 order 54 order in then a manner and then a manner. That's what it is. 52. Yes, My Lord.Yes. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. I come forth. Yes. Your Lordships on. PDF,Yes. My Lords, para? PDF 44, the Constituent Act 65 was entering to between the Government of Jammu and Kashmir under Clause 1 of the report. The relationshiphip of Jammu and Kashmir is the Union for still continued to be governed by Article 370 in the Constitution. Now kindly note My Lords, the temporary provision was over. Still now, why do this required to say it is to be the Governor? So, a public issue. Sorry. Why was there at a quid? 27 to say it is a immediately part of the State. That's not the only thing that I have to just read a reiteration of the position that was accepted by the government of India through out, which is the Constitution of position After all, it's a political conlo quo. I will see, has no legal basis that way for the intention of the entire of the signatory is My Lords. And political change that I have assigned out that I have done. My Lords, in any case 75, is a Amitus, I am in question of this country. The clearly I was out of the country. So I... My permission. Yes'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was going to go to theYes. And till political 14 years, the background is, that whenever he came up, he was saying that, now I'm given a little more given set on the given given set on me. It is in that context that the court was there. They can't get out of 370. That really the background. It was putting a general event by Mr. Sampi. So, the rest of the list of dates, the classic way I'm a more 370 to away with 370. So, sub-petition of the one non-contentententententententententent. So, if I may read on the 54, at the 55, at the 55, exactly. My Lord Justice Khanna has 65. Mr. Gavai and Sunilan. member of Parliament, Rana, then our raised the question whether the Ministry of law in justice, as to whether the government proposition amended removed 370 will later. Jammu and Kashmir is in the view of which a review. So, the details thereof, not the reason therefore, while this will have been providing an agreement Justice. It will be a people who have State and if so the Chief is thereof. Ministry of State and Law and Justice. It's also one. President there is no such purpose of a reconsidered. The Law will be properly who is not only purpose of all non-rule who are, it is called goes on, My Lords. Then, then in 57 is My Lords, Section 9, this is important. I am 57. Section 9, 52 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, these provisions in case or salient the Constitution specially state revision submitted the Governor to by proper Commission in Sh interim sense, all the powers and functions of the Government of the state. Such a protection enter out of 91, required the conclusions of the President of India. R292, 3, would cease to appropriate six months after this issue on June-20 2018, the Governor with the concurrence for the President and the issue of Pro facie under 22, Tika Ramjiye's vote in the State. This is important. Now we come to the