youyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyou Thank you.youyouyouyouYes. Before we begin, perhaps we can have some assessment from your side on the time schedule. So that time schedule and order of submission so that we have some broad idea. So do we take it that... There's a bit of disorder at this side My Lords on that point. But we shall, pleasantly Your Lordships. Yes. So, roughly, Mr. Sibal, how long would you be arguing first? Yes, My Lord. After you, who would be arguing, Mr. Sibal? Gopal, My Lords. Alright. Mr. Subramanian is going to be arguing after that. Then Dr. Dhavan, My Lords. Now, the time estimate, I would suggest that we'll give a fairly comprehensive hearing to the first Council. After that, I think the others can pick up whatever threads remain to be argued, because if we start giving the same amount to second, then we'll never... there will be no end to it. So once the ground has been covered by the Counsel who's argued first, then after that the second Counsel, then for the others I think... We've always adhered to that. Mr. Sibal, can we suggest that you can continue until lunch tomorrow because we're starting right up in the morning? We'll take My Lords a little more than that because we have to go through the history because this has to be dealt with in a historical context. Alright. Let me put it this way. I will try and do it My Lords. And if Your Lordships see that I need a little more time Your Lordships... Absolutely. We are not going to... we feel that because our conscience also has to be satisfied that we have heard that side of the matter fully from it. Mr. Sibal, in that request, we have spent hours to pay 1000... That's all right, but we don't have to read all the documents. I mean, that's why written submissions are filed. So Mr... Not of it is historical. That's right. But that history is important. I agree some part of the history is important. But you don't get mired in history only. No, not at all. Of course. The legal proposition to be decided. The three of Your Lordships have heard this matter once before. When we started... Mr. Subramanian and Mr. Shri K. Narfide have, I shouldn't say, built for 8 hours, but at least said that they are going to take 8 hours. So, I think the 8 hours and 10 hours for Mr. Subramanian, I think that's a little bit of an overstatement. I think we'll have to cut down that. And Mr. Narfide, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Subramanian, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Narfide, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Subramanian, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Narfide, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Subramanian, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Narfide, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Subramanian, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordships can give 1 and 1.5 hours to 2 hours. No, no, Mr. Narfide, we'll also request you to cut down your submissions. Your Lordship So let's start now. My Lord, let me see last time. Let me say this. He's not addressing because the party for whom he is appearing has withdrawn. But the point is on the last hearing, almost 90% was... we are first of party to the hearing. In I think about four days or so, four to five days we had almost finished the hearing of the petition. The question of the reference on those two judgments... That's all the difficulty was on the preliminary issues framed, whether 19, 6, 156... No, most parties, I'm sorry. The most parties argued the merits of the matter. Some of the people... Mr. Ramachandran and Mrs. Abhashan, it seems very... They had argued the full length, I remember. I have my notes of that time. That's not a first, the recall. Yes, four distinct. Two distinct. I remember that. Let Mr. Sibal open and I'm sure by the end of the day we'll have a good picture. I'll take little more than that. My Lord, that Mr. Zaffer should... In fact, I remember Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Mr. Dhavan, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dhavan should... Mr. Lordship... In fact, I remember Mr. Dhavan praising Mr. Dhavan Shah in the last proceedings that he had set parts. You are right. Absolutely right. Two of them... I addressed Your Lordships only on the reference. You are right. Only Raju Ramachandran and Zafar Shah fully argued the matter. That's right. Your Lordship may I submit my submission, please? I want to say something to the Hon'ble Court, please Your Lordship. This is an application to Your Lordships, not in the matter. I'm really sorry to do this, but a clarification is needed whether My My Lords Court 3, My Lord, Honourable Justice Borsig Bench can hear mentioning. There's something very urgent. There's a provision in the latest SOP. There's a provision in the SOP. Circulate an email. I've said that, you know, however urgent something is, once the mentioning is not available or the mentioning is over, just an email will be put up to me by the Registrar Listing. I'll pass orders immediately. So just read the SOP. It has everything in that. Because all Your Lordships and Constitution... I think yesterday, every mentioning request which was made until late night yesterday was attended to. I was, in fact start. Your Lordships, Your Lordships... Yes, Mr. Sharma. Your Lordships, am I clear? May I request Your Lordships? You are very clear, Mr. Sharma. What do you want to say? Your Lordships, Mr. Sharma, I can anticipate what you are saying. We are not calling this matter by the name of any individual litigant. We are saying, In Re, Article 370. I think that should resolve your problem. Agreed. My request is only that, of course, I filed a first petition. I have a very serious issue with me. Permit me to argue in the last. I'm not saying allow me first. Permit me to argue in the last. We will not overlap anything I will not touch the point whatever is going to be submitted by anyone over here. I have total different things. Yes, Mr. Sharma, we got your point now. Yes, you will be the last batsman. Yes. But give me... It will not necessarily be based upon what is argued, what points are formulated, how, etc. And before My Lord, they end, we would indicate our time. We have understood the concern that there should not be any... Repetition. Repetition, unwarranted repetition, et cetera. Yes, may it be, Your Lord. A point of clarification, Your Lordship. I was appointed to the Nodal Council. Unfortunately, I'm not able to present as I'm down with conjunctivitis. But the Red Petition Civil 1099-2019, in which Mr. Ramachandran was appearing. Although two parties have withdrawn, there are other Petitioners who are still prosecuting this case. And that will be representation for that. Alright. Who will be appearing in that for the remaining Petitioners, Mr. Prasanna? We are still hoping that Mr. Ramachandran can come there. Let us know as... difficulty that Mr. Prasanna. Mr. Vidrika, the main petitioners, it's clear because Vidrika, interveners to Your Lordship, the Lordship of the Senators has given us that. We'll see about the interveners. Let's first hear the Counsel and then we'll see what remains. But the Court has to decide. He has suggested the time frame. We will see. Of course, we'll certainly decide at the end of the... once we have a few of the leading counsel who make their submission, we know what areas still remain. We will assign some time. Mr. Sibal would be arguing which petition so that we can have that. It's in Ray 370. No, who you represent. That's all. So that we can say the pleadings. Mr. Lone. Lone. Yes. Please. Mr. Lone, My Lord. Yes. My Lords, this is indeed, according to me, a historic moment in many ways. First, Your Lordships will be analysing why history was tossed out on the 6th of August 2019. Whether that, whether the procedure adopted by Parliament was consistent with what democracy stands for. Whether the will of the people of Jammu and Kashmir could be silenced in this fashion. Whether they will be denied a representative form of government through a dictat of the Union inconsistent with our Constitution. It is also historic because it has taken five years for Your Lordships My Lords to start hearing this case. And for five years My Lords, there has been no representative government in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It is also historic because you will have to interpret Article 356 of the Constitution of India. An article which seeks to restore democracy and how did that process through an article which sought to restore democracy, you have decimated democracy. Can that be done under Article 356? That the State of Jammu and Kashmir historically represented a very unique relationship, unlike princely states and the states of India which were integrated into the Union. Whether that historic relationship between sovereign authorities could have been jettisoned in this fashion by seeking to amend the Constitution and seeking to efface Article 37. Whether My Lords, a Governor of a State would have on the 20th of June 2018 decided that I will keep the assembly under suspended animation, which is the power of the Governor alone under the JKT and K Constitution without even trying to find out whether they can form a government or not. Because on the 19th of June, a particular party withdrew support under the 20th of June, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed order. Whether on the 21st of November, the Governor passed order. Whether on the 19th of June, a particular party withdrew support. Under the 20th of June, the Governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November 2019, 2018, My Lords, a dissolution of the Assembly could have taken place before the imposition of Article 356. The Governor on the 21st of June dissolved the Assembly without reference to 356. And thereafter, Article 356 was used and the manner that it was used will be My Lords, I will address Your Lordships on those issues. These are issues that will arise for Your Lordships consideration never raised, never decided by this Court. So in that sense too, it is historic. So My Lords, I will proceed because there is a historical context to the State of Jammu and Kashmir My Lords. So I'll have to take Your Lordships through that history. And if Your Lordships will permit me, I'll start with a list of dates. Mr. Sibal, as all counsel know that all the arguments, we have the benefit now of live transcription. So the arguments are being simultaneously... we have transcripts in the Court on the basis of speech to text, software. Like in the Maharashtra case, by the end of the day, the transcripts will be given to the arguing counsel. Your juniors can just verify that there are no mistakes. If there are any corrections, they can be given to the registry so that we will upload them immediately on our website. So they are available for everybody then too. That will also help counsel who are following. Because it helps us as well as everybody else. So My Lords, I'll start off with a list of dates which is Volume 2, written, Volume 2, PDF page 33. We were reluctant students, Your Lordships, of dates because it's somewhat elaborated because it will give you a flavour what the issues are.Yes.33 My Lords, PDF page 33. It's called Appendix 1 List of Dates and Events. It's of March 1846. That's correct. That's correct. Lope is 33 My Lord. Yes. Okay. Fine. Yes. That'sYes. Thank you.Yes. My Lords, before this, may I State one, want to make one statement clear, My Lords, that we stand here on the premise that the integration of Jammu and Kashmir into India is unquestionable, was unquestionable and always remain unquestionable. That was a given. And despite that My Lords, the whole structure was overnight changed through a process which I will demonstrate with unconstitution. When Your Lordships will be dealing with this matter, there will be four legislations in a sense that you'll be dealing with. One is the Constitution of India. The second is the Constitution of India as applicable in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The third is the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Third is the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. And fourth is Article 370. The interaction between these three constitutions in the context of Article 370 is something that Your Lordships will have to look at as we move forward. But please keep that in mind. The reason why I say, Constitution of India is applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, that over time there were several orders issued, constitutional orders from time to time, which were incorporated in the Constitution of India that were applicable to Tamil Nadu Kashmir. The result was that most of the powers that are that most of the responsibilities and powers were actually in tandem with the Constitution of India. There was in fact, really no difference other than Article 370 itself. All the laws were applicable, except that those laws were replicated in the Constitution orders of the Government of India. Therefore, there was no reason to take away this right. It's in that context, My Lords, that I'm mentioning this. Now My Lords, I'll go to the list of it. On the 9th of March, 1846, the Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharashtra and India. The Treaty ofh. On the 9th of March, 1846, the Treaty of Lahore was executed between Maharaja and Lahore and the British Government resulting in the transfer of certain territories to the East India Company, in particular under Article 4 of the treaty. The Maharaja's seeds to the Honourable Company, all his forts, territories, rights and interests in the Hill Countries, which are situated between the river Baas and Indus, including provinces of Kashmir and Hazara. Earlier Jammu's Maharaja Gulab Singh's General Zorabhar Singh had invaded Ladakh in 1834. Ladakh came under Dogra Rule and was incorporated into the State of Jammu and Kashmir in 1846. During the Sino-Seek ward, the Queen Empire invaded Ladakh, but the Sino-Tibetan Army was defeated. Ladakh was claimed as a part of Tibet by Funtz Toq Wangiar, a Tibetan Communist leader. In 1947, partition left Ladakh a part of the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir to be administered from Srinagar. On the 16th of March, 1846, following the Treaty of Lahore, the British Government executed the Treaty of Amritsar on March 16, 1846. Under the treaty, the hilly mountainous country with its dependence is situated in the east of river Indus and west of river Ravigravi, including Jambah and excluding Lahore, Lahore was transferred by the British Government to Maharaja Gulab Sengh of Jammu. The reason was simple My Lords, there was a violation of the Treaty of Lahore and therefore compensation had to be paid to the British Government. He was not able to pay that compensation. In lieu of that compensation, these territories were ceded. That's what happened. On the 30th of June 1857, Gulab Singh died and was succeeded by his son Ranbir Singh. Following the passage of the Government of India Act 1858, territories formally in possession under control of the East India Company were vested in the British monarch in whose name India was to be governed. 1885, My Lord Ranbir Singh died and was succeeded by My Lord Akritab Singh. In 1889, 30th of August, the Interpretation Act of 1889 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 1850 was succeeded by My Lord, in 1889, 30th of August, the Interpretation Act of 1889 was passed by the UK Parliament. Section 18-4 of the Act defined the expression, Prishid India. All territories and places within Her Majesty's dominion, which are for the time being governed by Her Majesty through the Governor General of India. In addition, the term India was defined under Section 18-5 as British India, together with any territories of any native prince or chief under the suzerainty of Her Majesty exercised to the Governor General of India. You will note here, My Lord, Jammu and Kashmir is not part of this. In 1925, Maharaja Pratap Singh was succeeded by Maharaja Hari Singh, the last ruler of the Brinsley State of Jammu and Kashmir. And on the 20th of April 1927, the expression State Subject was defined in the State Subject Definition notification dated April 20, 1927, which was issued by Maharaja Hari Singh. This notification classified State subjects into four classes and subsequently became the basis for the definition of permanent residence of Jammu and Kashmir under the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir in Article 35-A of the Constitution of India. Your Lordships need not go into it because we are not really dealing with that issue. But I'm just mentioning it. On the 22nd of April 1934, Maharaja Hari Singh enacted Regulation 1 of Sambharth 1991 on April 22, 1934. Wherever there is Sambharth, if you take away 57 years, that gives you the year. The regulation established a Legislative Assembly for the State of Jammu and Kashmir called the Prajasabha. While certain legislative functions were delegated to the Prajasabha, the ruler, Maharaja Hari Singh retained supremacy over all legislative, executive and judicial matters. On the 2nd of August 1935, the Government of India Act 1935 was passed by the UK Parliament. The Act established India as a federation comprising Governor's Provinces, Chief Commissioner's Provinces, the Indian States, which had or would exceed to the Federation of India. Under Section 6 of the said Act, the ruler of Indian princely states was empowered to execute an instrument of accession, declaring that he exceeds to the Federation of India, subject to the terms of such instrument. Under Section 2, an instrument of accession was to specify matters with respect to which the federal legislature would have competence to legislate for a particular state and the limitations, if any, on the federal legislature's powers to make laws or exercise the executive authority over such state. Notably, as the State of Jammu and Kashmir was not a part of British India, provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 did not apply to it unless an instrument of accession was executed by its ruler in accordance with Section 6. On the 7th of September 1939, the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution Act 1939 was promulgated. While Maharaja Hari Singh retained sovereignty and supremacy over all legislative, executive and judicial functions, the Act provided the Prajasabha to make laws for the entire State of Jammu and Kashmir or any part thereof, subject to certain conditions. Further, the said Act vested executive functions with counsel consisting of a Prime Minister and other Ministers appointed by the ruler. The Act also provided for the High Court, which had been established by the ruler in 1928 to be a Court of Record with jurisdiction to adjudicate upon inter-alia civil suits, civil criminal and revenue. On the 16th of May, 1946, the Cabinet mission issued a statement regarding its report. Under paragraph 15-1 and 4 of that statement, the Cabinet mission plan envisaged a Union of India where the Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction. The Union would have responsibility over defence, foreign affairs and communications and the states would retain jurisdiction over all other subjects not ceded to the Union. On the 12th 22nd of May 1946, the Cabinet mission issued a memorandum titled States, treaties and Palipab and paramountcy, which affirmed that following the establishment of an independent government in India, the paramountcy of the British monarch over Indian states would lapse and paramountcy power over their respective territories would return to the States. On the 19th of December, 1946, the Constituent Assembly of India, in terms of the Cabinet Mission Plan met for the first session. On the 22nd of January 1947, the Constituent Assembly of India unanimously adopted the Objectives Resolution, which declared the Assembly's firm and solemn resolve to proclaim India as an independent sovereign Republic. Importantly, paragraph 3 of the Objectives Resolution declared that princely states that had joined the Union of India, and I quote, whether with their present boundaries or with such others as may be determined by the Constituent Assembly, and thereafter, according to the law of the Constitution, shall possess and retain the status of autonomous units, together with residuary powers and exercise all powers and functions of government and administration, save and accept such powers and functions as are vested in or assigned in the Union. On the 25th of January 1947, the Constituent Assembly adopted a resolution, the establishment of the Union Powers Committee to inter alia draw up lists of matters included in the and interconnected with the subjects assigned to the Union before the framing of the Constitution. On the 5th of July 1947, the Union Powers Committee submitted its second report of the Constituent Assembly, significantly the report noted in paragraph 3 and I quote, it is necessary to indicate the position of Indian states in the scheme proposed by us. The states which have joined the Constituent Assembly have done so on the basis of the 16th May statement. Some of them have expressed themselves as willing to cede wider powers to the Centre than contemplated in that statement. But we consider it necessary to point out that the application to States in general of the Federal List of subjects, insofar as it goes beyond the 16th May statement, should be with their consent. It follows from this, that in their case, the regulatory powers would vest with them unless their consent to their vesting in the Centre. And Your Lordship knows, that consent was given. The UK Parliament on 18th of July 1947, passed the Indian Independence Act of 1947 under 1-1 Section 1-1 of the Act from August 15, 1947, two independent dominions, India and Pakistan, were to be established. Significantly, Section 7-1-B of the Act stated that following independence, the sous-venty of the British monarch over Indian states would lapse and return to the rulers of such states, resultantly as sovereign states, as many as 562 princely states had the choice to remain independent or accede to either of the two dominions established by the Act. Lastly, as a transitional measure, Section 8 prescribed that provisions of the Government of India Act 1935 would continue to apply to the dominion of India and Pakistan subject to certain conditions. The Section 9 of the Indian Independence Act, the Governor General issued the India Provisional Constitutional Order 1947, which made certain sections of the Government of India Act 1935 applicable to India, until other provisions were made by the Constituent Assembly. Among the applicable provisions was Section 6, which dealt with accession of princely states to India through the execution of the Instrument of Accession. On the 15th of August, India attained independence and was partitioned into the dominions of India and Pakistan. Further, as British paramountcy had lapsed princely states that had not executed Instruments of Accession, with either dominion became independent states, these included the states of Duneagar, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir. On 26th of October 1947, the ruler of Jammu and Kashmir made an offer of accession to India, asking for help from the Indian Dominion to meet a grave emergency caused by mass infiltration of tribesmen drawn from distant area of North-West Frontier, coming regularly in motor tracks, Man Shehra, Muzzaffarabad Road and fully armed with up to date weapons which cannot possibly be done without the knowing of the Provincial Government of the North-West Frontier Province and the Government of Pakistan. In the instrument of accession signed by him on the same date, he declared his accession to India, subject to the term of such instrument. Under Section 3 of the instrument, the Dominion Legislature had authority to make laws for the State of Jammu and Kashmir on the subjects of defence, external affairs and communication, Article 7, provided that the instrument of accession did not commit the ruler to the acceptance of any future Constitution of India, while Section 8 vested sovereignty over subjects, not acceded to India in the Lula. My Lords, just two issues I want to flag here. Your Lordships in the course of this hearing will have to determine what does a Constituent Assembly stand for. A Constituent Assembly stands for enacting a Constitution for the future of the territories with respect to which the Constitution is to apply. It's essentially a political exercise. It's not a legal exercise. It's a political exercise to take into account the aspirations of people. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What kind of state the people want. What into account the aspirations of people, what kind of state the people want, and in the context of that, draft the Constitution. Right? The Constitution itself is a political document. What it takes into account the aspirations of several segments of society living within a united territory, takes into account their separate aspirations. And in the context of that, drafts a Constitution to meet the aspirations in future years for decades to come. So the exercise of a Constituent Assembly is a political exercise. The drafting of the Constitution, which is a political document, is a political exercise. Once the Constitution is drafted, once it is come into place, then all institutions under the Constitution are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are governed by the Constitution. And those institutions are limited, are limited in the exercise of their powers, because they have to exercise their powers consistent with the provisions of the Constitution. Parliament cannot convert itself into a Constituent Assembly. That's done. Today, the Indian Parliament can't say by a resolution that we are the Constituent Assembly. As a matter of law, they can't say it because they are the Constitutional Assembly. The Constitutional Assembly is the Constitutional Constitution. They can't pass a law which is outside the list. They can pass a law under 254. If the State passes a law, it's repugnant. They must assure to the basic features of the Constitution. They can't suspend, except in emergencies, with external aggression, the fundamental rights of people. That also is limited under provisions of the Constitution. The executive can't do things which are contrary to the law and the judiciary then declares the law. But no Parliament can convert itself into a constituent assembly. And if you accept that proposition of law, it has enormous consequences for the future of my country. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the law. And that is one of the most significant consequences of the country. And that is one of the most salient and according to me, the core issues to be decided in this case. Because Parliament converted said that we declared the Legislature of the State of Jammu and Kashmir as the Constituent Assembly. Where does Parliament get that power? How does Parliament get that power? Under which provision of law? Not underYes. No, I'm just reading. So that's My Lords, according to me, the core of the issue that Your Lordships will have to decide. May I now, with Your Lordships permission, read the Instrument of Accession? Because what happened on the 26th of October, actually My Lords, the invasion, so to say, was started on the 20th of October. And My Lords, within six days, these decisions were taken. Because the invaders came, they were armed, they had guns, they would have run over the state. The ruler realized that he cannot secure the security of his own people. He had entered into a standstill agreement with Pakistan. India refused to enter into a standstill agreement with India. And then My Lords, thereafter what happened? One second. One second. Thereafter what happened? One second. Thereafter what happened? One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. One second. Thereafter what happened was that he said, look, I need help and he told Man back and I cannot possibly secure by my people. So thereafter, the proceedings started, he sought and he said, look, if you help me, I will unconditionally access to India, subject to my own conditions, which is separate from the instruments of accession of other states. And India accepted it. And that's how India secured the peace and was able to My Lords. And of course, the precursor to that is the Ratcliffe Award, in terms of which My Lords, the part of Gurudas quote would connect Chamukhashmi to India, was ceded to India under the Ratcliffe Award, which allowed for that contiguity, which was the basic principle of the basis of which the partition was to take place. So that's how all this happened. Now let me read to Your Lordships the instrument of accession. Volume 1 My Lords. Documents Volume 1. My Lords kindly come to PDF page. Yes. PDF page 7, offer of accession by Maharaja Hari Singh on 26th of October19.Yes, My Lords. Volume 1, page 7. PDF page is also...Yes.Yes.page 7. Page 7 is an offer by... Yes, offer of accession by Maharaja Haris. We begin with page 7? Yes, page 7, 26th October 1947. Mr. Sibal, you are referring My Lord, Mount Patel will do that later. I have to inform, may I My Lord? I have to inform Your Excellency that a grave emergency has arisen in my state and request immediate assistance of Your Government. That Your Excellency is aware the state of Jammu and Kashmir has not acceded to the division of Dominion of India or to Pakistan. Geographically, my state is contiguous to both the Libyans. It was vital. It has vital economic and cultural links with both of them. Besides, my State is a common boundary with the Soviet Republic of China. And China. It should be. And China. Sorry, and China. In their external relations and dominion of India and Pakistan cannot ignore this fact. I wanted to take time to decide to which dominion I should exceed. Basically My Lords, he wanted to be independent quite frankly. But given this situation, he had no choice. Or whether it is not in the best interest of both the dominions and my state to stand independent, of course, with friendly and cordial relations with both. I accordingly approached the dominions of India and Pakistan and entered into a standstill agreement with my State. Pakistan Government accepted this agreement. The dominion of India desired further discussions with the Deputy Government. I could not arrange this in view of the developments indicated below. In fact, the Pakistan Government are operating post and telegraph system inside the State. Though we have got a standstill agreement with the Pakistan Government, permitted steady and increasing strangulation of supplies like food, salt and petrol in my State. A free these soldiers in plain clothes and desperados with modern weapons have been allowed to infiltrate into the State at first in Poonch and then in Sialkot. There was a Poonch revolt, My Lords. And finally, in the mass area, adjoining Hazara District, on the Ram Court side. The result has been that the limited number of troops at the disposal of the state had to be dispersed and thus had to face the enemy, the several points simultaneous, that it has become difficult to stop the wanton discussion of life and property and looting. The Mahara Power House, which supplies the electric current to the whole of Srinagar has been burnt. The number of women who have been kidnapped and raped makes my heart bleed. The wild forces thus let loose on the State are marching on with the aim of capturing Srinagar, the summer capital of my government, as first step to overrunning the whole State. The mass infiltration tribesmen drawn from the distant areas of North- West Frontier, coming regularly in motor trucks using Mansehra, Madhavrabha's Road and fully armed with up to date weapons cannot possibly be done without the knowing of the Provincial Government of the NWFP and the Government of Pakistan. In spite of repeated requests made by my Government, no attempt has been made to check these vaders or stop them from coming to my State. The Pakistan Redio even put out a story that a provincial government has been set up in Kashmir. The people of my State, both Muslims generally, both the Muslims generally have taken no part at all. With the conditions obtaining at present in my State and to the great emergency of the situation as it exists, I say, I have no option, I have it should be. I have no option. But to ask for help from the Indian Dominion, naturally they cannot send the help asked for by me without my state exceeding with the Dominion of India. I have accordingly decided to do so. And I attached the instrument of accession for acceptance by your government. The other alternative is to leave my state and my people as the fee-booters. On this basis, no civilized government can exist or be maintained. The alternative I will never allow to happen as long as I am ruler of the state and I have life to defend my country. I may also inform Your Excellency's government that it is my intention to once to set up an interim government and ask Sheikh Abdullah to carry the responsibilities in this emergency with my Prime Minister. If my State has to be saved, immediate assistance must be available at Srinagarh. Mr. Menon is fully aware of the situation and he will explain to you if further explanation is needed in haste and with kindest regards. My Lords, Your Lordship may just a historical fact. At that point in time, My Lords, Sheikh Abdullah was in prison and he had been always against the ruler because he wanted the will of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and not a despotic ruler. So he was against the Sardaray Riyas and so to say. But My Lords, when he realized that, look, unless I get him on my side, I'm not going to be able to defend. So he My Lords, released him and said, you form the interning now. Just a historical fact. That's how it happened. Yeah, I know that. But I want to bring politics into it. The moment I take somebody's name, they'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the other side. They'll be the it. The moment I take somebody's name, they'll be the other side. No, no, no. Nehru had nothing to do with this. I don't want to enter into politics here. No politics. I don't want fireworks in a very solemn occasion like this. Actually, thetime.youyouYes. So My Lords, now the instrument of accession, page 9. Actually Your Lordship knows more than we do. Your Lordship knows more about it than we do. No, no, we always keep learning. My learned colleague points out that there are very interesting snippets, the transfer of power documents as to how this happened and VP Men and My Lords actually set it out. I just told them there were seven miles from the swinegarh. Yes. The army was asked to... Absolutely. Electricity, My Lords. And they could not be controlled. They were raised. So there was no choice. I mean, he never wanted to exceed, but there was no choice. So My Lords, may I My Lords? Page 9. Whereas the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides, it has... it's obvious My Lords, My Lords, it's obvious that the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides, it has... it's obvious My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, My Lords, may I My Lords? Page 9. Whereas the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides that as... it's obvious My Lords, 15th August was independence. He did not immediately exceed. All the other Sumarajas exceeded apart from those two. Juna Rangan and Hyderabad. He never wanted to. It's only in October that this happened. Whereas the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides that as from the 15th day of August 1947, they shall be set up an independent dominion known as India, and that the Government of India Act 1935 shall, with such omissions, additions, adaptations and modifications as the Governor General may by order specify be applicable to the Dominion of India. And whereas the Government of India Act 1935, as so adopted by the Governor General, provides that an Indian State may accede to the Dominion of India by an instrument of accession executed by the Revolt and Law. Now, therefore, Aayeshwiman Mahendra Rajeshwar, Maharaj Reddy Raj Sri Hari Singhji, Jammu and Kashmir Narish, Tathar Thibbet and Desh Adipat, ruler of Jammu and Kashmir State in the exercise of my sovereignty in and over my State, do ever execute this instrument. I hereby declare that I accede to the dominion of India with the intent of the Governor General of India, the dominion legislature, the federal court and any other dominion authority established for the purposes of the dominion shall by virtue of this instrument. This my instrument of accession. But subject always to the terms thereof, and for the purposes only of the dominion, exercise in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir such functions as may be vested in them by or under the Government of India Act 1935, as enforced in the dominion of India on the 15th day of August 1947. Such functions there may be vested. I hereby assume the obligation of ensuring that due effect is given to the provisions of the Act within the State so far as they are applicable therein by virtue of my instrument of accession. I accept the matter specified in the Schedule here to, as the matters which respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make law for this State, I hereby declare that I accede to the dominion of India on the assurance that if an agreement is made between the Governor, General and the ruler of this state, whereby any functions in relation to the administration of this state of any law of the dominion legislature shall be exercised by the ruler of the state, that any such agreement shall be construed and have effect accordingly. In terms of this instrument of accession, my instrument of accession shall not be varied by any amendment of the Act or the Indian Independence Act 1947, unless such amendment is accepted by me by instruments supplementary to this instance. Nothing in this instrument shall empower the Dominion Legislature to make any law for this state authorizing the compulsory acquisition of land for any purpose. But I hereby undertake that should the Dominion for the purpose of a Dominion law, which applies in the state, deem it necessary to acquire any land, I at their request, acquire the land at their expense. For if the land belongs to me, transfer it to them on such terms as may be agreed or in default of agreement determined by an arbitrator to be appointed by the Chief Justice of India. Nothing in this instrument shall be deemed to commit in any way to my acceptance of any future Constitution of India or to fetter my discretion to enter into an agreement with the Government of India under any such future Constitution. Nothing is an instrument that affects the continuance of my sovereignty in and over the State or save as provided by or under this instrument, the exercise of any powers, authority and rights now enjoyed by me as a ruler of the State or the validity of any law at present enforced in this state. Hereby declare, and I execute this instrument on behalf of the state, in that any reference to this instrument to me or to the ruler of the state is to be construed as including reference to my heirs and successors. And the acceptance Your Lordships will find at 11. Hereby accept this instrumentument of Accession dated this 27th day of October 1947. Now My Lords, now there is aule to this accession, which is not in this document. But would My Lords be kind enough to turn to document Volume 4, PDF page 176. That has the Schedule 1. Volume 4, page? Page 176, PDF page 176. Running page 738, PDF page 176. Volume 4. Running page 738? Yes, 738. That's correct. Your Lordships might just remember the residuary power My Lords, unlike states in India, which vested under 97 with the Union vested in the State. Residue power did not vest in the Union. In the relationship of J&K with the Union. So it was quintessentially a truly federal marriage, so to say. Actually, the resolution which, when it was passed by the Constituent Assembly, initially contemplated that the residvery Power would be with the States. Yes. And it was between the time of that resolution and the eventual adoption of the Constitution that the Resilvery Power and the Entry 97 came to the Centre. But they all accepted it My Lord. So, yes. But here My Lord, this issue was somewhat different. Now My Lords, see. That's correct. Now My Lords kindly see the Schedule. Defence, Naval, Military and Air Forces of the Dominion and any other Armed Forces raised or maintained by the Dominion, any Armed Forces, including forces raised or maintained by an exceeding State, which are attached to or operating with any of the Armed Forces of the Dominion. Naval, Military and Air Force works. Administration of Contourment Areas, arms fire, arms ammunition, like forms and rainways, et cetera. We need not go into this. Maritime shipping, navigation, port, quarantine major ports. And then My Lords, aircraft, lighthouses, carriage of passengers and then ex-ancidity, elections to the Dominion Legislature subject to the provisions of the Act and of any order made thereunder. Offenses against laws with respect to any of the apperset matters, inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the apperset matters and jurisdiction in powers of all courts with respect to any of the aforesaid matters, but except with the consent of the ruler of the exceeding state, not so as to confer any jurisdiction of powers upon any courts other than courts ordinarily exercising in or in relation to the state. Right? So that's what... These subjects, do they correspond specifically to certain entries on the Government of India Act? No, My Lord, the subject of the State were with reference to those residing in the State, those who had come to the State, those who were in Pakistan and came back. So that's a 1927 order, which I'll point to Your Lordships later. Possibly the subjects which the Instrument of Accession recognizes in terms of the legislative powers of the Dominion must cover certain specific entries in the Government of India Act. So these subjects are, for instance, different from 1234. It will cover those entries. There will be certain specific entries in the Government of India Act, with reference to which there was an acceptance. Correct. I would find that out until Your Lordships are... Which part of the Government of India Act covers these? I appreciate that. Then My Lords kindly come back, come back to Volume 1. Yes. Then come to My Lords, reply from Lord Manbattant to Maharaja Harish. That's at page 12. Page 12 My Lord. My dear Maharaja Saheb. My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord their policy that in the case of any state where the issue of accession has been the subject of dispute, the question of accession should be decided in accordance with the wishes of the people of the state. It is My Government's wish that as soon as law and order has been restored in Kashmir and a soil declared cleared of the invader, the question of the State's accession should be settled by reference to the people. Meanwhile, in response to Your Highness's appeal for military aid, action has been taken today to send troops of the Indian Army to Kashmir to help your own forces to defend your territory and to protect the lives, property and honour of your people. My Government and I note with satisfaction that Your Highness has decided to invite Sheikh Abdullah to form an interim Government to work with you, with your Prime Minister. Then we go back to the list of...Yes.38. And My Lords, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Sinha, I have a question for Mr. Sinha. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Sinha, Mr. Sinha, Mr. Sinha, Mr. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Mr. Sinha, Mr. Mr. Mr. Sinha, Mr. letter amount back. So My Lords, we go to 23, 5th of March 1948. You want to go back to the list of dates and... Yes My Lords. Go back to the list of dates PDF 38, Volume 1. What are you reading? Fifth of March My Lords, that entry. Because I've already read My Lords, the 22nd of October letter of My Lord, non-battled. On the 5th of March, My Lord has that? Volume March, 1948. Yes. Item 23. The ruler... Your Lordship has that? The ruler My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, Your Lordship has that? The ruler, My Raja... Volume 2. Volume 1. Same list of cases I was reading. Sub-cases it's Volume 2, some... No, written submissions, compilation Volume 2. That's correct. Yes, yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. W.S. Volume 2. Yes. Volume 2. Yes. Volume 2. Yes. Volume 2. Volume 2. Yes. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. Volume 2. That's correct. Yes, WS Volume 2. Cereal number 28. PDF 38, WS Volume 2. Yes. 5th of March 1940, the ruler Naraja Hari Singh issued a proclamation under which a popular, interim government was established in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, pending the frame of a Constitution for the State, proclamation inter alia. But it is better we read the whole proclamation. This is at Volume 6, PDF page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, page 242. That's Volume 6, if Your Lordship has it. My Lord, Justice Surya Khan has it. Volume 2? 242 My Lords, Volume 6. PDF page 242. Running page is 1291.Yes.Yes, My Lord. On the 5th of March 1948. That's the one. Running page 1291. That's correct. That's correct. We have to show PDF, My Lords, otherwise it becomescould.Yes.Yes. In accordance with the tradition, all of them correspond to the provisions of the Government of India Act. Yes. They were more there, but they were whittled down. That's all. But they do correspond. Just wanted to answer Your Lordships on that. In accordance with the traditions of my dynasty, I have from time to time provided for increasing association of my people with the administration of the State, with the object of realizing the goal of full responsibility.required in thegovernment with the Council of Ministers, a legislature with the majority, that's the Prajalsava, with the majority of elected members and an independent judiciary. I have noted with gratification and pride, the progress so far made and the legitimate desire of my people for the immediate establishment of a fully democratic Constitution based on adult franchise with a heritory ruler for my dynasty as the Constitutional head of an executive responsible to the Legislature. I've already appointed the popular leader of my people, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah as the head of the Emergency Administration. It is now my desire to replace the Emergency Administration by a popular interim government and to provide for its powers, duties and functions pending the formation of a fully democratic Constitution. Accordingly, hereby, ordain as follows. My Counsel or Ministers shall consist of the Prime Minister. In such other Ministers, there may be appointed of the advice of the Prime Minister. My Royal, My Royal warrant appointed Sheikh Abdullah as the Prime Minister with effect from today. The Prime Minister and the other Ministers shall function as a Cabinet and act on the principles of joint responsibility. Divan appointed by me should also be a member of the cabinet. I take this as opportunity of giving once again a solemn assurance that all sections of my people will have opportunities of service, both civil and military, solely on the basis of their merit, in irrespective of creed and community. My Counselor Ministers shall take appropriate steps as soon as restoration of normal conditions has been completed to convene a National Assembly based upon adult franchise, suffrage, having due regard to the principle that the number of representatives from each voting area should as far as practicable be a proportionate to the population of that area. In a way, if he was adopting the principles, My Lords, adopted by us. The Constitution to be framed by the National Assembly shall provide adequate safeguards for the minorities and contain appropriate provisions, guaranteeing the freedom of conscience, freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. The National Assembly, as soon as the work of framing the new Constitution is completed, submitted through the Council of Ministers for my acceptance. In conclusion, I repeat and hope that the formation of a popular interim government and the inauguration of the near future were fully democratic Constitution will ensure the contentment, happiness and moral material advancement of the people. So go back to Volume 2, written submissions, compilation, Volume 2, PDF page 38 again. In 1949, Item 24, Volume 2, PDF page 38. My Lords, in a football field, when there is no play, that time has to be excluded. There's always a play growing, Your Lordships. And I submit to that. Who would better know about players than you, Mr. Sibal? I submit to that. This is time out, as we said. My Lord, Hari Singh issued a proclamation delegating his powers and authority to U. Raj Karan Singh, who would function as the ruler of the state. We don't have to go to that. Following his appointment as ruler, Karan Singh nominated four representatives from Jammu and Kashmir to the Constituent Assembly of India. But the Constituent Assembly actually was formed in 1951. This is the Gizha Const Assembly. Sorry. Sorry. Now December 1947 to September 49, princely states underwent a process of integration into the Indian Union by signing merger agreements of covenants of unionization. The State of Jammu and Kashmir was not a part of this process of integration. That's important. By the covenants of unionization, various princely states entered into covenants with each other to form single units. For example, through a covenant, the princely states of Bhavnava. Your Lordships need not read it because this is what Your Lordships want.United States of Travencore and Cochin, between May 48 to September 49, the states of Saurashtra, Madhya Bharat, Pepsu, Madhya, Rajasthan and Travencore and Cochin signed revised instruments of accession, which inter alia enlarged the powers of the Dominion Legislature, permitting it to enact laws on all matters in List I and III, the Government of India Act, 1925 and cancelled all previous instruments of accession entered into by rulers of princely states that had entered the governance referred to above.youYes. My Lords, Your Lordship may note that no revised instrument of accession was signed by the ruler of Jammu and Kashmir. Just note that fact, My Lords. That's what we're talking about. December 47 to September 1949. Now November 1949, through their respective rulers, Raj Pramukh, the states of Saurashtra, Pepsul, Rajasthan, Madhya Bharat, Mysore and Trivancore and Pochinumang service, issues proclamation stating that the Constitution of India, shortly to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly, shall be the Constitution for the State, as per other parts of India, and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November 1949, following the proclamation of the Constitution, the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November 1949, following the proclamation of the Constitution, the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November 1949, following the proclamation of the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November 1949, following the proclamation of the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November 1949, following the proclamation of the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be adopted by the Constitution of India, shall be enforced by the Constitution of India, shall be enforced by the Constitution of India, shall be enforced by the Constitution of India, shall be enforced by the parts of India and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. 25th of November, 1949, following the proclamations above, Rukhra Karan Singh issued a proclamation for the State of Jammu and Kashmir, that the Constitution of India, shortly to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly in India, shall insofar as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir govern the Constitution of the Nation between the State and the Contemplated Union of India. We don't have to go to that, because it's all set out here. Then 26th of January 1950, in exercise of its constituent power, the Constituent Assembly drafted the Constitution of India, which was adopted on November 26, 1949. The Constitution of India came into force in January 26-50, repealing inter alia the Indian Independence Act. Government of India Act, the relationship between the Constitution and the State of Jammu and Kashmir was governed by Article 370 of Constitution. It is evident that both the text of Article 370 and the negotiation that preceded its formulation, with Article 370 could not be changed unilaterally by Parliament. That's My Lords, of great significance. Then My Lords, 26th of January, 1950. Same day, in exercise of bars under Article 370, sub-Article 1 of the Constitution. The following consultation with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President issue. This is the first Constitution application to Jammu and Kashmir Order 1950. Under Paragraph 2 of this order, matters in the first Scheduled to the Order were declared to correspond to matters ceded to the Union of India through the Instrument of Accession and subsequently the power of Parliament to make laws for Jammu and Kashmir was limited to such matters. Furthermore, Paragraph 3 of the order declared that in addition to Articles 1 and 370 of the Constitution, provisions specified in the second Schedule to the order would apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. It's important My Lords to go to this document. Volume 3 of the documents and My Lords PDF page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 47, page 470. Sorry, page 4, page. And kindly note this. This is on the same day, on the Republic Day that you signed this. Do this. That's of great significance. In exercise of the past conferred by Clause 1 of Article 370 of the Constitution of India, the present President in with the Government of the State of Jammu and Kirtpeet is flaked to make the following. This order is so and so and so. For the purposes of Sub-Clause B-1 of Clause 1 of Article 370 of the Constitution, the matters specified in the first Schedule to this order, matters in the Union List are hereby declared to correspond to matters specified in the instrument of accession governing the accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to the Union of India, as the matter with regard to which the dominion legislature may make laws for the State and accordingly the power of Parliament to make laws for the State shall be limited to the matters specified in the first Schedule. In addition to the provisions of Article 1 and Article 370 of the Constitution, the only other provisions of the Constitution which shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be those specified in the second Schedule to the order and shall so apply subject to the exceptions and modifications specified in the said Schedule and to the modification that all references in the said provisions to the Raj Pramukh shall be construed as references to the Salve Re Asat of Jammu and Kashmir. So My Lords, if you look at this first schedule, you will find defence, what I had indicated earlier in the instrument of accession. You will find naval military. Then you find delimitation, naval arms, atomic energy, preventive detention, foreign affairs, diplomatic relations, United Nations, participation in international conferences, war and peace, foreign jurisdictions. Admission1996. Sorry? About 96 items. Yes, 9. They've taken the entries of the Constitution. Rama skipped, My Lord. They're not 96. See, 30-1 to 41 is missing. 72. Yes, there are several that are missing. It's only the same Sherylton number. That's correct. That's all that there is. In List I. Correspond to the Instrument of Accession actually, that defence military... No, that may not be correct, Mr. Sibal. The Instrument of Accession, the Schedule which is showed was far more restrictive. You can say these are more elaborate. No, My Lord, they do not correspond to it. They do not correspond. They do not correspond. No, no, correspond in the sense that they relate to defence. I'm not saying anything more than that. They relate to defence. They relate to external defence. That's all that I'm saying. Because the entries in the Union List... You will read out the second schedule earlier at page 29, if I'm not mistaken. 196. Correct, correct. I'm not disputing that. 176. 176. I am not responding. I shall be broad heads. That's all that I meant. Then My Lords, then say this Schedule 2, My Lords, is important. Article 72, 1C, 72, 3, 133, 134, 134. Just one more clarification. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order. This is by an order.. Just one more clarification. This is by an order. This is by administrative order. Under Article 370. 370. Yes, yes. That's all. That's what I told Your Lordships in the initial stage. Constitution of India as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir by order. Correct, correct. That's all I meant. That's right. That's correct. Now My Lords, kindly see these exceptions are at 72-1C, 72-3, 133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 145, 151. Articles 80 and 81 shall apply subject to the modification that the representatives of the State and the Council of States and the House of the people respectively shall be chosen by the President in consultation with the Government of the State. So that was My Lords, the variation. Article 54, 55 shall apply subject to the modifications that reference is therein to the elected members of both Houses of Parliament and to each elected member of either House of Parliament shall be deemed to include respectively a reference to the representatives of the State in these Houses, those Houses and to each such representative. The reference is to the elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the State and to each such elected members shall be deemed to include respectively a reference to the members of the Constituent Assembly of the State and to each such member and that the population of the State shall be deemed to be 44 lakhs and 10,000. My Lords, at the moment it's about 14 million. I'm 140 million. 14 crores. Now, Articles 149-150 shall apply subject to the modification that the references therein, the State shall be considered, does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Then Article 246 shall apply subject to the provisions of Paragraph 2 of this order and Clause 2 and 3 of Article 3246 shall not apply in relation to the State. So no issue of repugnancy or anything like that. They can't pass laws because of the residuary power of the State. Then 259 shall apply subject to the modifications that after the words, until Parliament by law otherwise provides, the words and the concurrence of the State to such law has been obtained shall be deemed to be inserted. Article 266 shall apply only insofar as it relates to the consolidated Fund of India and the public account of India. Article 282, 284 shall apply only insofar as it relates to the Union of the Public Account of India. 298, 299, 300 shall apply insofar as it relates to the Union. And 324 shall apply only insofar as it relates to elections to Parliament and to the office of the Vice President. So it doesn't apply to the elections in the State. 324, then 335 and then provisions of this part. 361 shall apply only as far as it relates to President. 364, 368 shall apply provided further that no such amendment shall affect in relation to Jammu and Kashmir unless applied by order of the President under Clause 1 of 370. So My Lords, the point that I'm making here is very simple, that the Government of the day accepted the fact that our relationships with the Jammu and Kashmir Government are on a separate footing. The provisions of the Constitution, unless made applicable through a Presidential Order and agreed to by the Government, shall not apply. The residuary power will vest in the State. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. It is the State which must fast laws. Government of India can't under the issue of repugnancy doesn't apply. So My Lords, this status is accepted. That's how 370 came into being. And it continued. Yes, that will come to later. Then the distribution of revenues comes, that we are not really concerned with at the moment. Now kindly come back to Volume 2 of the written submissions Volume 2, page 41. That's what I'll be showing to you. Page 41. The Constitution. So the assumption is that if the President passes a notification for the application of any law to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, he has to seek concurrence. He cannot do it without concurrence. Consultation. So it was a collaborative relationship in a sense. There was a constant dialogue going on. This is what we wish to do and My Lords consult the State. The State agrees, which is why most of the laws were made applicable. There was hardly any law that was left. So in a sense, they were incorporated separately in the Constitution of India, in its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir orders. What happened to currency, for instance? Currency, My Lords, was the sub-generated Reasat, as Your Lordship knows. Currency. Currency. Currency was Indian currency. No, because if you see currency, currency in the Constitution is governed by Entry 36 of List I. Yes. But there's no reference to Entry 36 of List I in the adaptation order. It will come later. There will be adaptation order, sub-s, subsequent adaptation orders. I'll come to that. I'll show that to Your Lordships. Because several... this comes in 1954. We have another adaptation order. They are several... give me on the list of several... we got a list by Your Lordships. So were the subjects broadened by the subsequent adaptation order? Yes, My Lords. Of course. They were broadened. Every state they were broadened. We have an order of 52. We have an order of 54. We have an order of 71. An order of 74. Because the powers were extended, My Lords, and the state, after consultation it was done. The state was ad idem with the Union My Lords. I mean the State itself in its Constitution says that we are integrated into India. There was no question. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir itself says that we are an integral part of India. So where is the question? The only thing that there is a unique structural system in place, a constitutional structure which was in place, which suddenly My Lords, on the 6th of August was done away with. And My Lords, with the greatest respect, I don't want to use that expression. Suddenly, My Lords, in Parliament, it was said that we are doing this at 11 o'clock. Nobody knew about it. There was no consultation of any sort. So it was My Lords, as I said, the Governor of the State and Parliament and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and the Parliament, and of course, the power of the State and My Lords, as I said, the Governor of the State and Parliament and of course the powers that be, they decided to do this one fine morning and tossed it out. So My Lords, page 41, the Government of India published its white paper on Indian States clarifying the nature of Article 37. The effect of this provision, this is important. We're talking about 1950 itself. The effect of this provision is that the State of Jammu and Kashmir continues to be a part of India. Nobody disputes it. Nobody ever disputed it. It is a unit of the Indian Union. And the Union Parliament will have jurisdiction to make laws for the State on matters specified either in the instrument of accession or by later additions with the concurrence of the Government of the State. My Lords ask that question. Steps will be taken for the purpose of convening a Constituent Assembly. Your Lordship knows, this is very important. At that time, when My Lords, we became a Republic, 370 was there and 370 mentions the Constituent Assembly. But the Constituent Assembly had not yet been convened in the State of Jammu Kashmir. That was convened in 1951. December. Point is that there was this understanding between the Government of India and the State that we will have a Constituent Assembly which will determine the future course of action, determine whether or not My Lords, in fact, 370 should be abrogated at all or not. That decision was with the Constituent Assembly, which is why it is called a temporary provision, not for any other reason. It's in that chapter of the Constitution. So this whole argument that this temporary provision was 370 was temporary, no. It was temporary because between 1951... Mr. Sibal, what is the date of this white paper? 50. I'll give you... No, Your Lord, given the date. It's at page 121. Just see the date. We'll just give it to you in a minute. 20. I'll give it to Your Lordships, just. So on the 1st of May 1951 now, Karan Singh, Yubhra's Karan Singh issued a proclamation directing the establishment of an elected constituent Assembly March. March 1950, I'll give the exact date. Okay. It is March 1950. It cannot be. It cannot be. It cannot be. We'll give the date. I thought it was March. Article 370 wouldn't have been there. But in any case, the idea is that it is prior to 1951. That's the whole point. Whatever the predate is, it's prior to 1951. In other words, the Constitution envisaged a Constituent Assembly, which was to decide as to what would be the fate of Jammu and Kashmir. 15th March, 1950 is what I'm told. 15th March? Anyway, let's not get into this. We'll give it. Why? Why? It's prior to 1916. Mr. Sibal, you can verify it and then we will give it. I'll give it to Your Lordships. 15th March.5.Yes.youyouyouYes. They didn't correspond. The 1950 of the order didn't correspond. Whereas if you look at the 50 order, it says para 2, for the purposes of sub-clause B1 and Clause 1 of 370, matters specified in the first schedule to this order being matters in the Union List are hereby declared to correspond to matters specified in the Instrument of Accession. Just wanted to mention that para to itself. So My Lords, first of May 1951, Karan Singh issued a proclamation directly establishment of an elected constituent assembly to draft the Constitution for the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Then 20th of March 1952, under Article 370, sub-Article 1 of the Constitution and following consultation with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President issued the... Just continue. Where you are? Chiverway you are? No My Lords, let's read 370 for a minute My Lords, we'll give Your Lordships some... Just continue. Where is your... whichever way you want. No My Lords, let's read 370 because the context will be clear. Thatwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the provisions of Article 238 shall not apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Not 238, My Lords, Part A, Part B, Part C, Part D State. That's what 238 was, My Lords. So it couldn't apply. Neither the Jammu Kashmir didn't fall into that category. Sui generis. The power of Parliament to make laws for the said State shall be limited to those matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List, which in consultation with the Government of the State are declared by the President to correspond to matters specified in the Instrument of Accession governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of India as the matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make laws for that State. And such other matters in the set lists as with the concurrence of the Government of the State, the President may by order specify. So the items, My Lords, communication, defence, foreign affairs in consultation for all matters concurrence, for all other matters concurrence. Explanation. For the purposes of this article, the Government of the State means the person for the time being recognized by the President at the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir being acted on the advice of the Council of Ministers for the time being enforced in office under the Maharaja's proclamation, dated 5th day of March 1948. This explanation was added later My Lords, and I'll point that out to Your Lordships later. It was amended later My Lords. This particular explanation. The provisions of Article 1 of this Article shall apply in relation to that State. Such of the other provisions of this Constitution shall apply in relation to the State subject to such and modifications, as the President may by order specify. Provided that no such order which relates to matters specified in the instrument of accession of the State referred to in paragraph 1 of Sub-clause B, shall be issued except in consultation with the Government of the State, provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last proceeding proviso shall be issued except with a concurrence of that Government. If the concurrence of the Government of the State referred to in paragraph 2 of Sub-clause B of Clause 1 or in second proviso to Sub-Clause D of that clause be given before the Constituent Assembly for the purposes of framing the Constitution of the State is convened, it shall be placed before such assembly for thus decision as may be taken thereof. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this article, the President may by public notification declare that this article shall cease to be operated or shall be operated only with such exceptions and modifications and from such date, as he may specify, provided that the recommendations of the Legislative Assembly of the State shall be necessary before the President issues a notification. Constituent Assembly. This now is replaced by the Legislative Assembly. The Constituent Assembly. So you had to have a recommendation of the Constituent Assembly before you could be phase 370. That's what the Constitution Members themselves thought in 1950. And that operated till 6th of August. How could it change? But how long would the tenure of the Constituent Assembly of the State be? Seven years. 51 to 57. So therefore, with the end of the seven years, the very institution of the Constituent Assembly of the State lapses then. There's no Constituent Assembly left. Absolutely. But then what happens to the proviso? This is the point My Lord. This is exactly the point My Lords. This is exactly the point. My Lords, in between, between 51 and 57, the Constituent Assembly could take that decision. But thereafter... Thereafter My Lords, there's no question because they form the... take the Constitution... What happens after the Constituent Assembly has come to an end? Because no Constituent Assembly can have an indefinite life? That's precisely the point My Lords. That is my point. The Constituent Assembly in India, when it drafted the Constitution, can't have a life after the Constitution is framed. No, but equally, the proviso to Clause 3 refers to the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State has to be taken. Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? But that's the point. The President has to take the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State. Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? But that's the point. The President has to take the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State. Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? But that's the point. The President has to take the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State. Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? Now, what happens at a point of time where the Constituent Assembly of the State ceases to exist? But that's the point, the President can't issue such a notification. According to you, after 57, it can't be done at all. No, after 57 and at all. Then Clause 3 exactly. That is by the temporary provision. Because this was... One more fundamental issue, which is that notwithstanding the fact that the proviso ceases to operate, Clause 3, the substantive part continues to hold the field. No, it is dependent on the proviso. No. With respect, no, My Lord, with respect. Any proviso... If the proviso... if the proviso... I mean, there are ways in which you can construe a proviso. But if the proviso ceases to operate by virtue of the fact that the tenure of the Constituent Assembly of the State has ceased to exist, surely the substantive part of three still continues to remain. Kindly see the scheme of 370, My Lords, with the greatest assist. Kindly see the scheme of 370. On the four items, My Lords, that is defence, communications, external affairs and ancillary matters, My Lords, the consultation of the State is necessary under 370. For all other matters, the concurrence of the State is necessary. So can you say you do away with the concurrence? And then the third thing is, if you want to abrogate 370, then it or amend it, you have to get the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly. So long as it exists. So long as it exists. Sorry My Lords, this is the point My Lords. That's why I said initially, the Constituent Assembly My Lords has served its term when a Constitution is framed. So in which case then what happens is if your construction is right, 370 which is essentially a transitional provision, assumes a character of a permanent position. No, it is a... By virtue of the fact that there is no Constituent Assembly of the State after 1957. Absolutely. It's a transitional provision between 1951 and 1957, when the Constituent Assembly could take that decision. Could take that decision. Which was left to the people of Kashmir. According to you, after 57, now Article 3 has become redundant. My Lords, Constituent Assembly, even in the context of Constitution of India is redundant. You can't revive a Constituent Assembly. There is no method, according to you, by which, either with consultation, assembly or advice, can 370 at all we have. Even My Lords, the amendment that is made ultimately, they convert the Legislature into a Constituent Assembly. That's a different matter. No, no, no. That tells you their understanding. Please appreciate that. It's their understanding of the Constitution. There are two separate aspects. One is interpretation of Clause 3 of Article 370 and the proviso to there. The second part is what the amendments have been made and how do you interpret it? Yes. I can't hear Your Lordship. One is interpretation of Clause 3 to Article 370 has to done independently of the amendments. So your contention is the proviso specifically applies and unless the proviso is resorted to and it cannot be resorted to after 1937, Clause 3 will not be applicable. That's your submission. Yes, absolutely. That's absolutely right. My Lords, Justice Clause 2-3 is worth itself out. My Lords, the point is why was this clause put in 1950? Because in 1950 they said we'll have a Constituent Assembly. See the Constituent Assembly debate, it will be made clear. No, no, but the fact is in C70, that time the Constituent Assembly was not there. The whole purpose was.Yes. To accept your submission, we'll have to postulate that Clause 3 becomes a sort of a constitutional article which falls into disuitude after seven years. Yes, yes. Absolutely. Who can that be? Clause 3 still continues to survive. The limitation on Clause 3 may not cease to operate. Kindly see 369. Continuous My Lords. Kindly see 369. Temporary powers to Parliament to make laws. That's the part. Part 21 My Lord. See, 371 begins with a non obstante clause. It overrides the entirety of the Constitution. But Clause 3 contains a non obstante clause which overrides Clause 1 as well. Yes. So therefore, notwithstanding, because 371 makes special provisions in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Correct, correct. But 373 has a non obstante provision which overrides the non obstante Clause in Clause 1. That period My Lords, we are not disputing that. Your Lordships is putting to me, there is a structure in place that was envisaged by the Constitution in My Lords 1950. At that time there was no Constituent Assembly. Why did they mention Constituent Assembly? Need not have mentioned it. Kindly look at it from that point of view. What was the reason to mention Constituent Assembly? In 370, when it was not even in place. They could have said Government of Jammu and Kashmir. Why did the Constitution makers, My Lords, include the term Constituent Assembly in 3? Because they knew that the Constituent Assembly will frame a Constitution. Really, there was no limited the acceptance of sovereignty of the Dominion of India was complete. They didn't say in the Instrument of Accession that we accept the sovereignty of the Union of India for some limited purposes. They accepted the sovereignty for all intents and purposes. That acceptance of sovereignty was complete, but they reserved certain rights to themselves over certain legislative subjects. So in that sense, thesubject to the... Not the Union of India, My Lords. All the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly. Not Union of India has no right to till it is recommended. The word is recommendation of the Constituent Assembly. Then they can exercise that right. That's how you interpret a proviso. You can't say that they have the right sovereign, forget the proviso. even the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly which doesn't exist. Then 368.2 proviso also goes My Lords. Therefore, the reason and the reason is simple My Lords. The genesis of it was the fact that in 370 itself, it was mentioned that the Constituent Assembly has a role to play in the abrogation of 370. Otherwise, if Your Lordship says it had no role to play, there was no need for 370 sub-Article 3. And My Lords, look at the concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence power. Even those powers were of no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was in place. There was no need for concurrence anymore. Because now you have a Constitution of the Jammu and Kashmir. So that also became oceos. You have to see My Lords, the historical perspective in the context of Jammu and Kashmir ultimately signed the instrument of accession. Nobody disputes whether they are integrated into India, but subjected to a constitutional provision. Therefore, the submission is that once the period stipulated in the proviso to Clause 3 had come to an end, the power under Clause 3 itself came to an end. Because it's no longer alive. The Constituent Assembly, like in India, can, for example, today, they can't be a provision in the Constitution of India with reference to a Constituent Assembly. Because the Constitution of the Assembly has worked itself out. It has formed the Constitution. Now, if it had decided that they would abrogrogate 370, the Constituent Assembly would have said we abrogate 370, which is why it was a temporary provision. Not because of the fact that under the... as a Union of India, it was deemed to be a temporary... How could it be? Sorry, interrupting you at this stage. It does may be just putting a question. If one looks at Article 370, Clause 1-B. Yes. The power of the Parliament to make laws for the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the... which in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation with the State shall be limited to, it says matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List in consultation for the State shall be limited to, it says, matter in the Union List and the Concurrent List, in consultation with the... which in consultation with the Government of the States are declared by the President, correspond to matters specified in the Instrument of the Constitution, governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of India. To such other matters in the list as with the concurrence of the State, government of the State, the President may in the order may specify. Then explanation deals with the what is meant by the concurrence of the State. Then it says that provided that no such order, the first proviso, provided that no such order which relates to the matter specified in theYes.in consultation with the Government of the State, provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those specified in the last proceeding proviso shall be issued except with the concurrence of the Government. That's right. So the second proviso talks about concurrence of the Government. Now, if one looks at Clause 2, it deals with a situation where the Assembly or the Government of the State is not there. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. It's deals with the period of the State. or the Government of the State is not there. It's deals with the period when the Constitutional Assembly of the State was in existence, but the Government or the Electoral Assembly was not in existence. And therefore, the proviso to Clause 3 will only be applicable as long as the Government of the State or the Assembly is not elected. Because election of the Assembly will take place after the Constitutional Assembly of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, enacts the Constitution. Government was always in place from day one. No, no, no, maybe so. Government is always in day one. That appears to be the broad outline of this, outline of Article 370. What? Clause 2, when it refers to the Constitutional Assembly of the State, it is for the purpose of Constitution of the... framing the Constitution of the State, which shall be placed before the Assembly for such decision as may be taken thereon. Correct. The Constitutional Assembly of the State makes the Constitution, frames the Constitution, it goes before the Constitution. No, it can state in the Constitution that the 370 is abrogated. What problems are these? It has the power. That's why there is a Constitutional Assembly. And it says My Lords, notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions. Kindly note that. Notwithstanding 371B1 and 372, notwithstanding any of that. So My Lords, you start the article by saying notwithstanding anything in this Constitution and three starts with notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions. That is notwithstanding the opening part of the article also. There was a government. Yes. The existence of Constituent Assembly of the State, if Sub-Article 3, according to you, has become known, existence is too operative, then how the very temporary nature of Article 370 will survive? That's why, because it's temporary because the Constituent Assembly had not been framed. At that point, the time had not been constituted. In 1950, when this provision was added in the Constitution. No. If Sub-Article 3 goes, then that means Article 370 can never be abrogated. Yes, that's the whole point. That is our case. Then how it is temporary? It is temporary because when this article was framed, there was no Constituent Assembly. It was the Constituent Assembly which could have taken the decision that we will abrogate 370 and merge completely with the Union of India, like any other state. Mr. Sibal, your contention, if I have understood you correctly, is that the temporary nature of 370 is co-relatable to the Constituent Assembly Life of the Constitutional Assembly. Life. And in a way, Sub-Clause 3 becomes OTIOS once the Constitutional Assembly ceases to exist. This is your contention. My contention. From 51 to 57, which temporary... Your Lordships in the Constitutional Assembly, they say the same thing. Mr. Ayyandaar, they say the same thing. What I'm saying My Lord. I was just trying to phrase it as I understand. I'm clear that... Your Lordships have understood it and I also understand Your Lordships what Your Lordships are thinking My Lord. So I have to respond to this. According to it is temporary between 51 and 57. That's correct. And thereafter permanent. The reason is simple My Lords, all Constituent Assemblies are temporary. It is there no permanence in a Constituent Assembly. So when you... Role is limited to framing the Constitution. Therefore, My Lords, if it is temporary by its nature, which is why I started by saying this is a political exercise. That's why I started with that submission before Your Lordships. The formation of a Constituent Assembly is a political exercise to ensure that people within the territory of a particular region, their aspirations are taking into account to formulate a law and a Constitution to ensure that those aspirations are met in future times to come. This is not a law making exercise. Then they framed the Constitution to take into account those aspirations. That's how our Republic came into force. Because there was the 1935 Act, there was diversity. My Lords, kindly look at it historically. Let's not forget the law for the moment. Look at it historically. If you look at Europe and the making of the nation states in Europe, how did that happen? It happened because there were large empires, the Austria or Hungarian empire, Prussian empire. And those large empires had communities and within those empires, there were peoples of different languages, of different cultures, of different ethnic lot. So it is the breakup of the empire that led to the rise of the nation state, the Treaty of Utrecht, the 1848 revolutions. Right? In India the process was the opposite. It's the only exception. The process was just the opposite. There was disparity. They were existing disparities. There were 562 princely states. There were states which were part of the British Crown. They had to be amalgamated and each of them, My Lords, had certain conditions. But then ultimately, they all agreed, okay, for the states that were part of 562, all agreed. But this particular State of Jammu and Kashmir was an exception. And the exception was constitutionally engrafted in Article 370. And the terms of the exception were constitutionally ingrafted in Article 370 and the terms of the exception were constitutionally ingrafted in 370. You can't judge the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and decide. Then what's the difference between this and the act of the Crown? What's the difference between this and the annexation of Juna Ghand or the annexation of Hyderabad. Then it's an act of paramountcy that I am the Union and I will decide. When you have constitutionally committed yourself that if this is to be done, you have to follow a process which two sovereign authorities have agreed upon and then grafted in Article 370. Otherwise, then it's exercise of paramount power. When the assimilative exercise is carried out, your submission has understand as J&K is an exception because a temporary provision was created for a period of time and after that it is engrafted permanently into the Constitution. Because you can't revive the Constitution. I'm just saying. That's what my Excellency, I appreciate. Your Lordships have fully understood what I'm trying to say. What is it that you have a state of Jammu and Kashmir with today 14 million people. At that time, they were much less. They have no role to play in their own faith. They have no role to play. If in 1950 it was part of the Union, there would be no issue. The aspirations, the desires of the people, whatever it is, My Lord. After all, this was something that also had international repercussions at that point in time. If an elected assembly would want to abrogate 370, even that is not possible. Not possible. That is why they had to do these things in the manner that they did. But the only way we can reach to that conclusion is by saying that once the period for the work of the Constituent Assembly of the State comes to an end, then what is essentially a temporary provision assumes a permanent character in the Constitution. But that... Yes, Your Lordships, is that... But if that hypothesis is not accepted, then the only basis on which you can really place your petitions here is that by asserting that a pre-Constitution compact, which was entered into between an independent state and a state in which it has merged, so to speak, is enforceable, irrespective of what the legislative power of the merging state is. Because My Lords, the legislative power, both of the Parliament here, cannot override the powers under 356 of the Constitution. Because what has been used is 356. There is no such power under 356 that can My Lords take... Or can an independent state, which accepts the sovereignty of another state, unconditionally, still say that, well, if the Parliament of that state to which we have assumed sovereignty of, is still restrained in terms of the original compact. This is not conditional My Lords. This is not conditional. And apart from, forget about that. Can Parliament of India, My Lords, Parliament of India, in the context of its responsibilities and powers under the Constitution of India, do enact beyond 356? Can't. There are very complex issues that Your Lordships will have to decide. This power is exercised under 356. How is that can be exercised under 356? 356 itself is a temporary power. What are you trying to say to me? What you are saying you see, which means even let us say a hypothesis that the will of the people is to abrogate it, which is reflected by an Assembly election. You are saying even that scenario, it cannot be done. Trying to understand the consequence would be even then it can't be done. But that would be a political act then My Lords. I would say that if that situation arises, it would be a political act. That's not been done, but be that as it may. My Lords, kindly, kindly look at it from this point of view. 356 itself is the temporary provision. What's the purpose of 366? To restore democracy. Is the intention behind a 356 position, which is a temporary provision to decimate democracy? No, Mr. Sibal, let's keep 356 aside for the time being, because we are now interpreting Clause 3. We are interpreting Clause 3. We can't bring... No, no. I'm only saying these are issues that will arise. If I look at it carefully, Sub-Clause B-2 says, such are the matters in the said list with the concurrence of the Government of the State, the President may be by order specified. So,, all other matters which are not included in Clause 1 can be now the Parliament of the country can legislate with the concurrence of the Government of the State. Now, what is meant by the concurrence of the Government of the State is specified in Clause 2, as long as there is no Legislative Assembly. In that case, it's the Constituent Assembly, which will have the power. And after the State Assembly has been constituted, then it will be placed before the State Assembly. Correct. That's the purpose of Clause 2. So that's also worked itself out. Yes. But once the State Assembly has been constituted in terms of the Constitution of the State, then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the State Assembly. And then it is governed by the proviso of the of the State, then it is governed by the proviso, first and the second proviso to Clause 1, which says, provided that no such order which relates to matters specified, matters specified so and so, so and so in consultation with the Government of the State, concurrence is not required because it's all included in the order of accession. The second proviso applies when it is not included in the order of the accession and says, provided further that no such order which relates to matters referred to in the last provision shall be except with the concurrence of the Government. So, all that is required is concurrence of the Government. But to say that the proviso to Clause 3 will operate even after the Constitution... No, it says this Article shall cease to operate. Not just any laws. That this Article shall cease to operate. There's a difference My Lords. Actually, proviso 1 and proviso 2 have worked themselves out. Because now you have a Constitution. Yes. It's not worked itself out. It will continue to apply as long as it is this concurrence of the State Government. That's right. And in between the Constitution in 1957 is framed. So that there was no C.O. after that, except for the ones. There were couple of C.O.'s, but ultimately it's in three... that's it. There is different. See, it says notwithstanding anything in foregoing of this article. This article. We are interpreting 370. Let's look at it. Let's look at Clause B, C and D for a moment. Yeah. B, C and D covered two types of situations. That's one, it covers entries of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. And it covers substantive provisions of the Constitution also. Now Clause B refers to the power of Parliament to make laws for the State. Yes. And it restricts it in two ways. Yes. First, those matters which are governed by the Instrument of Accession, those entries in the Union List and in the Concurrent List, which are referable to the instrument of accession insofar as it reserves powers to Parliament, those have to be specified by the Government of India, by the President in consultation with the State. So, B-1 refers to those matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List. Right. B-2 refers to such other matters in the said lists in which concurrence of the Government of the State is concerned. Right? So, the entirety of B is confined to matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List. Correct. Now we come to Clause C. Clause C refers to a substantive Article of the Constitution, Article 1. Yes. Right? Now we come to Clause D. And 370, not just Article 1. Right. And of this Article. You are right. And this Article. Now Clause D. Clause D refers to such of the other provisions of this Constitution, they shall apply in relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by order specify. Correct. So Clause D now is beyond the ambit of Clause A. Clause A refers only to the entries of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Right? Clause D refers to the other provisions of the Constitution, apart from the Union and the Concurrent List. Not in Clause 1 and 370. This is the problem. Right. Now, look at the proviso to Clause D. Yes. The proviso says that no such order which relates to the matters specified in the instrument of accession of the State referred to in paragraph 1 of Sub-Clause B shall be issued, except in consultation with the Government of the State. In other words, the first proviso refers to the entries of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. Right? The second proviso, first proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso, first proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entry of the Union List and the Concurrent List and the Concurrent List. Yes. The second proviso refers to the entries of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Yes. Right? The second proviso provided further that no such order, now which is such order, it refers to the order which is referred to in the first proviso. Therefore, the use of the word such order, which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso shall be issued except with the concurrence of that government. In other words, the whole area of concurrence, consultation and consent is confined to the entries of the Union List and the Concurrent List. Because that's very clear from the whole scheme. B-1 matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the Union List. B-2 such other matters in the whole scheme. B-1, matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List. B-2, such other matters in the Union and the Concurrent List. Then go to Clause D. Clause D refers to the provisions of the Constitution. Provision of this Constitution. Of this Constitution. Right? Yes. Now, the Presidential power to the power of Parliament or such of the provisions of this Constitution shall apply in relation to the State subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by order specify. In other words, the President is given an untrammelled power to specify which are the provisions of the Constitution which shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That is conditioned by the first proviso and the second proviso. But the first proviso and the second proviso don't relate to the substantive provisions of the Constitution at all. They only refer to the matters governed in the Union List and the Concurrent List. Only the first proviso, not the second. Orders My Lords. Right, right, right. Deals with the Presidential Order. The first proviso mentions the List, but not the second proviso. But D recognizes as inhering in the President, the power to decide which of the substantive provisions of the Constitution shall apply to Jammu and Kashmir. Now that power of the precedent is conditioned by the first and the second proviso. But the first and second proviso to Clause D only... No, see, why did further that no such order shall relate. So no such order means the order referred to in the first proviso. And the first proviso only refers to Clause 1 of Sub-Clause B. These only orders. Yes. These orders My Lord. I understand that. Yes. No, no, one second. No, no, you're not getting the point. The point is this, that D refers to an order which may be passed by the President, making applicable provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir with adaptations or modifications. Now the question, including the list, now what the First Proviso says is that no such order which relates to matters specified in the Instrument of Accession, specified in paragraph 1 of Clause B shall be issued except with consultation. That pertains only to the entries in the Union List and the Concurrent List. Absolutely. Yes, you face Lord. Now the second proviso. Now the second proviso says, provided that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso. Compliance. Therefore... Which includes T, My Lord? No. It refers only... it cannot. I'll tell you why. Provided further that no such order, no such order means which order the order referred to in the first proviso and the order referred to... The order mentions order My Lord. Sorry? The also mentions order. Proviso, you referred to such order. Such order. That's to the order in D. Just, just one minute. My Lord, it is not. He also says the same thing. My order is specified.todos of the Parliament have been measured. Sorry. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all.Yes.Yes. Honourable Chief Justice, in the morning I'd mention a matter. There's no higher urgency. There are 23 protests going on simultaneously. We have a very volatile situation due to very unfortunate situations that happened in the neighbouring state in Haryana and Noom. Now there are 23 protests going on in Delhi. Have you circulated your... have you circulated your email? Sent it to the... I'll pass orders immediately. If Your Lordships could please... Of course. That's what the circulated says. I'll do that. Can I hand over hard copies of the I.A. My Lord? You circulated an email, right? I'll pass orders also. But the email went to the learned registered judicial because we couldn't find another email. It doesn't even allow me to use a washroom. He's waiting just outside to take orders the moment I come to my chamber. Right. We also circulated to the Honourable Court Master, Your Lordships Court Master.youyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouYes. My Lords, may I just very simply state what I think is the architecture of 370. Yes. Let's go back to it My Lords. Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the provisions of Article 238 shall not reply in relation to Jammu and Kashmir. That's done away with now My Lords, because those are Part A, Part B, Part C, Part B6. Therefore, My Lords, that's over. We're not part of any of those states. The power of Parliament. Now here, My Lords, it is relates to the power of Parliament to make laws. Just kindly note that. That's the ordinary lawmaking power. That's the ordinary lawmaking power. For the state shall be limited. That's important. Even the lawmaking power is limited to those matters in the Union List and the Concurrent List. Your Lordships will see State List is out because regulatory power is in the State, which in consultation with the Government of the State are declared by the President to correspond to matters specified in the instrument of accession governing the accession of the State to the Dominion of India as the matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make laws in that State. So that's that list My Lords. We saw the list in the morning. The list in the morning. So it is only qua those that Parliament may make laws, but that also with consultation. And consultation is mentioned here itself. Doesn't have to be repeated in the proviso. It's mentioned here itself. Correct? That also has to be in consultation. And just point My Lords, clarify the architecture. That's with consultation. Now you come to be. Such other matters, that is again, the power of Parliament to make laws. Such other matters in the said list. So apart from the list that are in the instrument of accession, such other matters in the said list. This list refers to Union and Concurrent List. Yes. Only List 1 and 3. 1 and 3. As with the concurrence of the Government. So now My Lords, that law has to be also with concurrence of the Government. So we are dealing only with laws here. Lawmaking power. That's the first limb of the argument. That's the restriction on the lawmaking power. That's the lawmaking power. Concurrence is mentioned here in respect of other matters My Lords. No proviso is required. Here no proviso is required. Now let's leave the explanation for the moment. The provisions of Article 1 and this Article shall apply... see, the provisions of Article 1 and of this Article shall apply in relation to that state. So this is Article 1 and this Article 370. This becomes relevant for D ultimately. Now come to D. D starts with the word... now D doesn't deal with laws. It deals with proclamation and orders of the President. Provisions such of the other provisions of this... I pause here My Lords. Others excluding 1 and 370? Once I hold on, don't let My Lord read it. So, C says the provisions of Article 1 and of this Article shall apply in relation to that State. And D says such of the other provisions, that is excluding 1 and 370, shall apply in relation to that State, subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by order specify. Just one minute. C cannot be read in isolation without reading sub-lause 1. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution, the provisions of Article 1 and this Article shall apply in relation to that statement. So that means only that Article 1 and this Article will apply only in relation to that. That's all I'm saying My Lord. Nothing more. Then read D. Now D, if one reads D of the other provisions. Correct. Which means 1 and 370. As well as other than the matters in the Concurrent and the Union List. Correct. That also. That also. I agree. At 238 also. is that it will include D, but... sorry, C, but exclude A and B. It will. Otherwise it will lead to a situation. You are saying that 370 is a permanent article. We'll come to that later. That's your argument. 370 is a permanent article which cannot be undone by even with the concurrence. Let me forget that when I made that argument. Right now you are just giving us the structure of the article. Forget that what I made that argument. It is temporary on 26th of January 1950. Let's forget about anything else. It is temporary. Why? Because My Lords, the Constituent Assembly which you had chosen to. So it's temporary. There's nothing wrong with that heading. Let me finish. Let me finish the architecture and then I'll come back. So My Lords, I was reading, de such of the other provisions of the Constitution, so that is other than 1 and 370, shall and 238, shall apply in relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and modifications as the President may by order specify. Now you come to orders, not to laws. Provided that no such order, what order? Order under D, colon. See the colon, specified colon. Right? Provided that no such order which relates to the matter specified in the instrument of accession, again My Lords, of the State referred to in paragraph 1 of Sub-Clause B, shall be issued except in consultation with the Government of that State. Again a colon, provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso shall be issued, except with the concurrence you go to B1 and B2. So that was the law, the same template. Now the orders for the rest of the provisions. Then read 2 My Lords. If the concurrence of the Government of the State referred to in paragraph 2 of Sub-Clause B of Clause 1 or in 2nd proviso to Sub-Clause D of that Clause be given before the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of framing the Constitution of the State is convened, it shall be placed before such Assembly for such decision, and may be taken thereon. Same template of B and D My Lords, and they can reject it. They need not confirm it. That's how you retain sovereignty, which is the instrument of accession. And if it don't retain, it is temporary. That's why temporary. I'm just trying to explain... With the structure of 370. You complete Clause 3, then I have one question. No, but we'll first... you can complete as well be breaking your link, which is on some unrelated area therefore. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions. So My Lords, it's notwithstanding the notwithstanding in the beginning of the article. Please note that. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions of this article. So notwithstanding the notwithstanding in 370, the President may by public notification declare that the article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifications and from such date as he may specify, provided that the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly shall be necessary before the President issues such a notification. So, if the Constituent Assembly recommends it, namely, that we want to abrogate 370, then on that recommendation, the President will issue a notification. And this Article is contained in Sub-Clause 3. Doesn't have to be in D. So that, according to me, is the architecture of 370. Mr. Sibal, I have just one question on this. B-1 refers to those matters in the instrument of accession which have been ceded by the Maharaja to the Union, the Dominion's power. B-2 refers to all other matters in the Union and Concurrent List other than what is covered by one. Now, suppose in the area of the Union and the Concurrent List, something is not covered by B1 or by B2. In other words, it's not referable to those subjects mentioned in the Instrument of Accession and it's not covered by B2 at all. That power is not interested to the State. B2 is all other lists My Lords. No, no. B2 says such other matters in the said list as with the concurrence of the Government, the President may order special... All lists, all matters in the list. Right, right. Of course. It covers it. It's a residuary. They have been... Yeah. So you have to take the concurrence of the State. Yes. Now, suppose it is not covered by B2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Right? It's not covered by B1. Yes. And you have not taken the concurrence of the State. Yes. Now, suppose it is not covered by B2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Right? It's not covered by B1. Yes. And you have not taken the concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Right? It's not covered by B1. Yes. And you have not taken the concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B1 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Yes. Now suppose it is not covered by B-2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the State. Right? It's not covered by B-1 and you have not taken the concurrence of the State under B-2. Correct. On such an aspect, the State Legislature cannot exercise power because it's not in the State List. State List... one second. These are one second. The State Legislature is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is the state. Residuary power is instrument itself. Instrument of accession. Yes. It is part of all orders of the Government. No, but as specifically there's a... It's also part of the Constitution. I just wanted to see whether it's... Yes, yes. Your Lord may take it. Otherwise there will be a peculiar situation where neither Parliament can exercise power nor can the State Legislature exercise power. I'll take Your Lordships point. I will demonstrate Your Lordships that the rigidory power was with the State Legislature throughout and with the State Government throughout. That was the condition on which abrogation of the Article of the Constitution. Yes, absolutely. Your Lordship is right. And therefore, when we read at that power, which is specifically conferred on the President, then proviso leave aside for the timing the proviso. Do you agree with that interpretation? No, I don't. For the time being, just leave the proviso. I can't read the Constitution in this fashion. I can't even read an act in that fashion. Let's forget the Constitution. How do I leave the proviso in the Constitution is staring us in the face? No, no. My... the question was... Your Lordship is putting to... Therefore, Clause 3 deals with abrogation of the Article itself, which is not the subject matter of 1 and 2. No, it's subject matter of C. Article 1 shall apply to the State. Correct. But it deals with complete abrogation of the Article itself. I agree. And in that context, you may argue that your argument at the first fold was, it will be only if the conditions of the proviso are satisfied, that 3 Clause 3 will apply. Otherwise, if the conditions of the proviso are not satisfied, Clause 3 will not apply. That's all Your Lordships have interpreted proviso since 1950 My Lords. That's all that I can say. I can't say more than that. The proviso may in some cases be an exception. A proviso may in some cases be an elaboration. There's a difference My Lord. Depends upon the nature of the... Provisos are sometimes changed colors. Proviso My Lord. Proviso that the recommendation... One rule for a proviso in that sense. Provided that the recommendation of the legislative of the Constituent Assembly shall be necessary. It's a restriction on the exercise of power. That's what I referred to in Clause 2 My Lords. To interpret Clause 3, to say that the power existed and then will vanish once the Constitutional Assembly of the State is no longer exists. My Lords, kindly read 2, My Lords. If the concurrence of the Government of the State referred to in para 2, sub-clause B or 1 or the secondiso to D, of that clause be given before the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of framing of the Constitution of that's the purpose. Mr. Sibal, you have contradicted yourself. When it's referred to Clause C, sub-clause C is an independent clause and Clause D not applicable to Clause C, then the second proviso will not apply. And therefore, only sub-clause 3 will apply. Point is Clause 2 says that even for the purposes of those notifications... Anyway, we will examine that. We have understood your line of argument. No, no, there is something that's missing My Lords. The proviso says, provided that the recommendations of the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in Clause 2. Why are they saying that My Lords? The purpose is given in Clause 2. Provided that the recommendations of the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in Clause 2, shall be necessary for the President before the President, before the President issues such a notification. It is necessary and before he issues it. How can you say it's explanatory or that it's an independent clause? It specifies how it is to happen. It has to happen before, that is the permission has to be have before. You know the reason why it refers Clause 3 refers to the Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in Clause 2 is because Clause 2 refers to the Constituent Assembly for the purpose of framing the Constitution. That's correct. That's exactly my point. That's your point. You get that point. Now, therefore, the reference, the recommendation of which Constituent Assembly, this makes it very clear that one and only Constituent Assembly which was formed for the purpose of framing of the State Constitution. Once the frame of the Constitution was done, then that purpose of the Constituent Assembly is not like a permanent body, like Parliament is a permanent body. The Supreme Court is a permanent body. No doubt about it. It's a body which has a specific purpose and then after it becomes function of official to so to speak. Therefore, once the Constituent Assembly had fulfilled its purpose, then the proviso itself has no application. This is the problem My Lords. The problem there is, then you are applying 3 without the proviso and saying this is a blanket power, then My Lords, the President can do it any time without any consensus. Absolutely, Mr. Tibal, one which we must bear in mind. Just as is an order. I integrate. I integrate. One thing which we have to also bear in mind is, all these provisions are in Part 21. Part 21 has used three expressions, temporary, transitional and special. Correct. Temporary provisions are those which are intended to be in existence for a limited period of time, but without a point of terminus, right? A temporary government servant. That person is temporary for a limited period of time, but whose services are to be terminated until you are terminating the services of that person, that person still continues. That's that broad concept, you know, of temporary. Absolutely right. Transitional means, something which necessarily has a terminus. That's right. Laws made earlier, laws made earlier. I'll show you some of the transitional provisions in this part. And third is special. Now we'll see, for instance, after 370, we'll get some idea from the provisions after 370. Say, 371. Special provision with respect to Maharashtra and Gujarat. 371A, special provision for Nagaland. Yes. Then we get 371B, special provision for Assam. 371C, special provision for Manipur. That's correct. D, for the State of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Right. E, establishment of Central University in AP.Yes.Goa, J for the State of Karnataka. Now, after these special provisions end, we come to 372, which continues, Continuance Enforce of Existing Laws, which then says, shall continue enforce until altered or repealed or amended by competent legislature or by any other, like the penal code. It just continued enforce until it is altered. Then similarly, now we have 372A, power of the President to adapt laws. And it says, the President may by order made before the 1st of November 1957, make such adaptations and modifications. So this was it, transitional provision. That the President had to make those adaptations by the 1st of November 1957. So it was a transitional provision. After that, the power lapses. So similarly, 373 was then came the provisions relating to the judges, judges who as whose services had to be taken over by the Union of India, Public Service Commissions, so on and so forth. And then 392, the power of the President to remove difficulties. Right. So therefore, Part 21 basically covers special provisions, temporary provisions and transitional provisions. Right. Now, it doesn't use the expression, transitional in any headnote, a marginal note to the articles. But temporary and special are used in the marginal notes to specific articles of Part 21. And 370 specifically uses the expression, temporary. Fact 2 My Lords. Fact 2. Can we then, by reading, by saying that the power under Clause 3 goes once the Constituent Assembly comes to an end, really convert this into a permanent provision, which it was never intended to be by the Constitution. Your Lordships are now putting to me, it was never intended to be within 370 when it was put in. It had to be a temporary provision. It had to be My Lords. There was nothing there at that point in time. It had to be My Lords. It could never be a permanent provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a permanent provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It could never be a temporary provision. It had to be My Lords, they will know. There's nothing there at that point in time. It had to be My Lords, it could never be a permanent thing. So why did the Constitution then put it in Part 21? Because My Lords, it is a separated, it relates to a particular state where the two sovereigns have come together and made a compact which is incorporated and it did get... Part 21 does not deal only with Jammu and Kashmir. It deals with other states. I'm sorry. I didn't get it. Part 21 does not deal only with Jammu and Kashmir. No, of course not. That's why I think it is a separate independent provision and has to be interpreted on its own terms. You can't incorporate My Lords, concepts outside of 370 and integrate them into 370 and say this is how we'll read 370. 370 is not temporary. 370 is not temporary. Then a note expressly says it's temporary. No, it says temporary provisions with respect to temporary provisions. In other words, this is a provision which is temporary till such time as the Constituent Assembly decides this way or that way. That's the whole purpose My Lords. Because when the Constitution came into force, there was no such thing as the Constituent Assembly even. How did the Constitution add this here? Because there was an understanding. Otherwise, why would you bring in the term Constituent Assembly in 370? Which is not anywhere else. To the temporary... supposing My Lords, not that I should say so. My Lords, one never knows. Suppose the Constituent Assembly decided not to be with India. Then what happens? You would have to do what we did to Juna Ghat. Because there are two types of temporary provisions in Part 21. One type is Article 369. 369 says Parliament had the power to make laws for a period of five years on certain matters, even if they may not be in the concurrent. Absolutely. So they were temporary with reference to time. They were temporal. I agree. Then 370 is an illustration of a case which is temporary in the sense it will operate till abrogated. Could it be? I mean we just... Not till abrogated. When we are putting your point, it's actually we are thinking... I understand. I understand. Your Lordships have always done this. This is a very fruitful debate because we all have to understand. We are here standing for India. It's only that process that we can really... The people of India were not, this is not something that we believe we are totally integrated into India. That's not an issue. We have said so. Therefore, there is no. As far as... I mean, our Constitution says we are an integral part of India. So where's the questionituency Assembly has said, all of Constitutional Terpli, we'd be like any other state. But they don't have to make a Constitution of their own. Then they don't have to make a Constitution of their own. Indian Constitution of their own. One second. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own Then they don't have to make a Constitution of their own. Then they don't have to make a Constitution of their own. Indian Constitution of their own. Once again. They don't have to make a Constitution of their own. The Constituent Assembly would say, we integrate into India. We're part of India. We're like any other state. We don't need a Constitution. And all those lists will apply. That power is there. So why was it called a temporary provision? Because that had to be decided by the Constituent Assembly. And then you interpret the terms to find out how that power is to be exercised. Because it was unlike any other state. The residuary power was always with the state. In the Delhi Agreement in 1952, I have a recent... The 70 came in with the original Constitution. Yes. Is there anything in the Constituent Assembly debates which shows rights on why they introduced it? I'll do that straight away. Yes. I'll give Your Lordships that. Exactly what I'm saying is what they said. Let us see the C.A.D. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Volume H. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page 1174. Page Volume 8, PDF page 1174. 1174? PDF 1174. 4035. Running page 4035. 4035? Yes, running page. But PDF 1174. Volumetric? Volumetric. By now we know Your Lordships illicit answers in order to find out what we wish to say. Not that Your Lordships have ever decided on one way or the other. We always do that. And I've seen... The last word is said in a matter, Mr. Sibal. Everything is open. When the printed word comes, that's the last word. I always said, Mr. Sibal, as a judge is very quiet, there is a problem. That's a real problem. It's a real problem. Actually, Mr. Sibal, there are times when you start dictating a judgment, you start dictating it with a certain... And then you change your mind. And you start dictating with a certain conclusion in mind, because that's what you have formed. When you start dictating it, then you realize that your line of reasoning is wrong, because when you dictate, the logical syntax has to fall in place when you are engaged with yourself. Then you realize, no, no, no, it's not going to fit in like this. Quite frankly, it's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this. It's not going to fit in like this Then you'll say, no, no, no, it's not going to fit in like this. Quite frankly, My Lords, and I'll be honest, when I looked at it myself, I asked this question that Your Lordships is asking. I myself must ask that question. 403, 4. Yes, 403, 4. Sorry, 1174. Yes, 1174. Then kindly come to My Lords, the sentence starting. Sir, this matter, Your Lordship has that? They set out My Lords... Gopaswamy Iyer? Yes, Iyer. Gopaswamy Iyer? Yes, Iyer. Then it says, Sir, this matter, this matter, the matter of this particular motion relates to Jammu and Kashmir. The House is fully aware of the fact that the State has acceded to the dominion of India. The history of this accession is also well known. The accession took place on 26th October 1947. Since then the state had a checkered history. Conditions are yet not normal. The meaning of this accession is that the present, that at present the state is a unit of a federal state, namely the dominion of India. This Dominion is getting transformed into a Republic, which will be inaugurated on 26th January 1950. The Jammu and Kashmir State therefore has to become a unit of the new Republic of India. As the House is aware, accession to the Dominion always took place by means of an instrument which had to be signed by the ruler of the state and which had to be accepted by the Governor General of India. That has taken place in this case. As the House is also aware, instruments of accession are a thing of the past in the new Constitution, will be a thing of the past in the new Constitution. The states have been integrated with the Federal Republic in such manner that they do not have to accede or execute a document of accession to the purpose of becoming units of the Republic. But they are mentioned in the Constitution itself. And in the case of practically all states other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, their constitutions also have been embodied in the Constitution for the whole of India. And all those other states have agreed to integrate themselves in that way and accept the Constitution provided. The discrimination is due to the special... Why this discrimination? That's the question asked. The discrimination is due to the special conditions of Kashmir. That particular state is not yet ripe for this kind of integration. It is the hope of everybody here that in due course, even Jammu and Kashmir will become ripe for the same sort of integration, as has taken place in the case of other states. At present, it is not possible to achieve that integration. There are various reasons why this is not possible. Now, I shall refer again to this a little later. In the case of other Indian states or Union of States, there are two or three points which have got to be remembered. They've all accepted the Constitution framed for states in Part 1 of the new Constitution and those provisions have been adapted so as to suit conditions of Indian states and Union of States. Secondly, the Centre, that is the Republican Federal Centre, will have power to make laws applying in every such state or Union to all unions and concurrence subjects. Thirdly, a uniformity of relationship has been established between those states and unions and the Centre. Kashmir's conditions are, as I have said, special and require special treatment. I do not want to take much time of the House, but I shall briefly indicate the special conditions are. In the first place, there has been a war going on within the limits of Jammu and Kashmir. There was a ceasefire agreed to at the beginning of this year, and that ceasefire is still on. But the conditions in the state are still unusual and abnormal. They've not settled down. It is therefore necessary that the administration of the state should be geared to these unusual conditions until normal life is restored. Part of the state is still in the hands of rebels. We are entangled with the United States in regard to Jammu and Kashmir and it is not possible to say now when we shall be free from this entanglement. That can take place only when Kashmir problem is satisfactorily settled. Again, the Government of India have committed themselves to the people of Kashmir in certain respects. They have committed themselves to the position that an opportunity would be given to the people of the state to decide for themselves whether they will remain with the Republic or wish to go out of it. We are also committed to ascertaining the will of the people by means of a plebiscite, provided that peaceful and normal conditions are restored and the impartiality of the plebiscite. This is not relevant anymore. This is not relevant. The plebiscite issue is not relevant. Part is not relevant, as per your comment. Even the part before that. Yes. Now see further My Lord. We have also agreed that the will of the people through the instrument of a constituent assembly will determine the Constitution of the State as well as the sphere of Union Jurisdiction of the State. That's why it was a temporary provision. Now next paragraph. At present, the legislature which was known as the Prajapraja Sabha in the State is dead. Neither that legislature nor a Constituent Assembly can be convoked or can function until complete peace comes to prevail in the State. We've therefore to deal with the government of the state which as represented by its in its counsel of ministers reflects the opinion of the largest political party in the state till a Constituent Assembly comes into being. Only an interim arrangement is possible, which is why it is temporary and not an arrangement which could at once be brought into line with the arrangement that exists in the case of other states. This tells Your Lordships why it is temporary. Now, if you remember the viewpoints that I have mentioned, it is inevitable conclusion that at the present moment we could establish only an interim system, interim system system, Article 306A as now what is 306A? 370. Is an attempt to establish the other system. Interim till the Constituent Assembly decides. I shall now proceed whether that's not relevant. So clearly My Lords, clearly it gives you an indication why it was in turn. It gives you an indication why it was temporary. Because there was nothing in place. Legislature was not working, Constituent Assembly was not in place and the will of the people had to be taken, which was reflected in the Constituent Assembly. Therefore, it was temporary. And therefore, 370, My Lord. Now, remember this. When 370 is enacted in 1950, at that point in time, nothing is in place. And yet in 373, they say, you will have to get the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly. That is, dehors the Constituent Assembly having been formed. Deh of 4039. Yes, that's. Now it's very interesting My Lords. My Lords let's read the paragraph. Then we come to Clause 2. First that and then I'll read the other paragraph. Then we come to Clause 2. My Lords have that? That's PDF 1178. 4039. Yes, My Lord. Now My Lords actually, maybe I should start with Volume 8, 1176. Let's take 1176. PDF 1176. Running page 4037. Most of Your Lordship's questions, My Lords, hopefully are answered in this. There's the second portion of this Article 1076 says My Lords, I shall now proceed to... Your Lordships have had that paragraph? I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A. I shall now proceed to take the House to the provisions of this Article. That's 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A, which is 306A, which is 30 by Article 211-A of this Constitution, which applies to the Constitution to Indian States. The Constitution of Indian States, subject to the modifications contained in Part 6A, the Schedule. So far as that provision is concerned, I've already indicated to you that the provisions regarding the Constitution of other states would not at present be applied to Jammu and Kashmir. Therefore, Clause 1 of A of this Article says that the provisions of 2-1-1-A of his Constitution shall not apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That's 238 My Lords. 2-1-1-A is 238. The second portion of this Article relates to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. That's 238 My Lords. 211A is 238. The second portion of this article relates to the legislative authority of Parliament. So Parliament may by law. That's B. Over the State of Jammu and Kashmir, this is governed primarily by the instrument of accession. Broadly speaking, that legislative power is confined to the three subjects of defence, foreign affairs and communications. But as a matter of fact, these broad categories include a number of items which are listed in the Instrument of Accession. I believe they include... I believe their number, sum 20 to 25. Now these items have undergone a change in description, in numbering numbering and arrangement as amongst themselves in List I and List III of the new Constitution, which is therefore necessary that the items mentioned in the Instrument of Accession should be brought in line with the change designations of entries in the List I and III of the new Constitution. So Clause 1-B of 306-A says that this listing of items as per the terms of the new Constitution should be done by the President in consultation with the Government of the State. That explains My Lords. B-1. Clause B-2 refers to possible additions to the list in the Instrument of Accession and these additions could be made according to the provisions of this article with the concurrence of the Government of the State. The idea is that even before the Constituent Assembly meets, it may be necessary in the interest of both the Centre and the State that certain items which are not included in the Instrument of Accession would be appropriately added to the list in that instrument so that administration, legislation and executive action might be furthered. And as this may happen before the Constituent Assembly meets, the only authority from whom we can get consent for the addition in the Government of the State that is provided. Then there is the explanation which defines what the Government of the State means. The Government of the State is defined both in the Constitution, which is now supposed to be in the force in Jammu and Kashmir. The State as well as the proclamation with the Maharaja issued on 5th March 1948, the terms of which are as follows. Then kindly come to... now kindly come to C&D. Yes. Second last paragraph in 1177, PDF 1177. 4038. My Lord has that? Clause C and D referred to the provisions of the Constitution other than matters listed in 1 and 3. These various provisions have been divided into certain categories. The first, a Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the and includes among those territories, all the states mentioned in Part 3 and Jammu and Kashmir is one of the states mentioned in Part 3. With regard to the other provisions in the Constitution, these will apply to the Jammu and Kashmir State with such exceptions and modifications, as may be decided on when the President issues an order to that effect, the order can be issued... Just read the sentence once again. With regard to other provisions of the Constitution, these will apply when the President issues an order to that effect. Yes. That order can be issued with regard to subjects mentioned in the Instruments of Accession only after consultation with the Government of the State. Correct. With regard to other matters, concurrence of the Government has to be taken. That's B1 and B2 My Lord. Two provisions. Two provisions. B1 and B2. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard to subject matter. That order can be issued in regard provisors. Two provisors. B1 and B2. That order can be issued in regard to subject mentioned in the instrument only after consultation, in regard to the other that concurrence. Now it is not the case, nor is it the contention of the members of Kashmir Government, whom I took opportunity of consulting before this draft was finalized. It's not their intentions that the other case of the Court, but the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice the intention of the members of the Kashmir Government, whom I took the opportunity of consulting before this draft was finalized. It's not their intention that the other provisions of the Constitution are not to apply. That particular point of view is that, that these provisions would apply only in cases where they can suitably apply and only subject to such modifications and exceptions as the particular conditions of Jammu and Kashmir may require. I wish to say that no more about that particular point in the present moment. Then we come to Clause 2. You will remember that several of these clauses provide for concurrence of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir State. Now these relate particularly to matters not mentioned in the Instrument of Accession. And it is one of our commitments to the people and Government of Kashmir that no such additions should be made, except with the consent of the Constituent Assembly, which may be called in the State for the purpose of framing its Constitution. In other words, what we are committed to is that these additions are matters for determination by the Constituent Assembly of the State. This is commitment. Now you will recall that in some of the clauses of this article we have provided for concurrence of the Government of the State. The Government of the State feel that in view of the commitments already entered between the State and the Centre, they cannot be regarded as final authorities for the giving of this concurrence, though they are prepared to give it in the interim periods. But if they do not give this concurrence, this clause, if they do give this concurrence, the Clause provides that that concurrence should be placed before the Constituent Assembly when it meets and the Constituent Assembly will take whatever decisions it likes to take. My Lords, what can be clearer than this? The last clause refers to what may happen later on, which is why it's temporary. So the paragraph which you read is with reference to Clause 2, not with reference to Clause 3. Yes, I'm not saying that. I am just reading... The last clause is Clause 3. I am not saying... I'm saying I'm reading it holistically so you know why it is called temporary. 2 and 3 are temporary. 2 and 3 are temporary. No doubt about it because they have to be actually agreed upon by the legislature, by the constituent assembly. Now C-3. The last clause refers to what may happen later on. We have said Article 211-A, which is 238-A, will not apply to Jammu and Kashmir. But that cannot be a permanent feature of the Constitution of the State and hope it will not be. So the provision is made that when the Constituent Assembly of the State has met and taken its decision, both on the Constitution for that State and on the range of federal jurisdiction over the State, the President may on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly issue an order that this Article 306A, shall either cease to be operative or shall be operative only subject to such exceptions and modifications as we specified by him. But before he issues any order of that kind, the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly will be a condition precedent. That explains the whole of the article. My Lords, how can... there can be nothing clearer than this. I mean, we in hindsight sitting in 2023 can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a provision. We can't interpret a sitting in 2023 can't interpret a provision except on its terms. We are here to interpret the Constitution. We are not here to legitimize a process which is inconsistent with the express terms of the Constitution. Next paragraph. The effect of this article is that the Jammu and Kashmir State, which is now a part of India, will continue to be a part of India, will be a unit of the future Federal Republic of India and the Union Legislature will get jurisdiction to enact laws on matters specified either in the Instrument of Accession or by later addition with the concurrence of the Government of the State and steps have to be taken for the purpose of convening a Constituent Assembly in due course, which will go into the matters I have already referred to. When it comes to a decision on the different matters, it will make a recommendation to the President, who will either abrogate 306A or direct that it shall apply with such modifications and exceptions as the Constituent Assembly may recommend. That, sir, is briefly a description of the effect of this article and I hope the House will carry it. This explains several things. One, why it was a temporary provision. Two, Constituent Assembly had not been constituted then. It was envisaged in our Constitution that it will be constituted and the ultimate authority of abrogating 370 will be left to the Constituent Assembly. And a precondition of that would be a recommendation of the Const Constitutional Assembly for the President to pass an order. Action that it can't be done. That was the understanding of the lawmakers, of the Constitution, makers of India, of the Constituent Assembly. That is why it was put in. It was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision, but it was not a temporary provision,. It was not a temporary provision in the sense that it had ultimately 370 had to be abrogated. That's not the meaning of the temporary provision that we're talking about. In any case, My Lords, a heading of an article can determine the content of the article. Content of the article is clear. So My Lords, the Government of the day was staring at the provisions of Article 370. gone. That's why I said it was tossed out of the window through a political act, not through a Constitutional Act. Such a political act cannot be determined by the Parliament of India. It's not in the remit of the Parliament of India to take a political decision, but it's not in the remit of the Parliament of India to take a political decision to abrogate 370. Now we'll demonstrate as we move along, how it was done and in what matter it was done. Nobody can deny that the people of Jammu and Kashmir are with the Union. It's an integral part. Nobody can deny that. But there is a special relationship. There is a unique relationship which is engrafted in 370 itself. You can't jettison that, except by following a process, which is ordained by law. So My Lords, Your Lordships asked me on the Constitution, I wanted to just mention. These are the... this is theYes.Yes.Yes.Yes. My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord,Yes.Yes, Your Lordships.youyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouyouYes. I just want to mention that all the amendments sought My Lords, were all rejected and withdrawn. Not moved. Not moved. Mr. Mahavir, I was like, he did not move those amendments. Yes. So My Lords, may I go back to the list of dates now, now that I have put my submission on Article 370 straight away. Let's go back to the list of dates, My Lord, in the submission. My Lords, kindly come to my written submissions, Volume 2, and the PDF page is 41. Same page. Same page that I left. We are on the list of dates at the serial where you left. Yes, My Lord. Unless we have a clear picture of 370, it will be difficult to. Item 33 at page PDF 41. My Lords have that? Justice? So, we can't... Yes. Under 370 sub-Article 1 of the Constitution and following consultation with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President issued the Constitution, application of Jammu, Kashmir, Amendment Order 39, modifying Article 54, 55 of the Constitution, as long as they applied to State of Jammu and Kashmir. Now, Your Lordships will notice each of these orders were issued under B1. D1. All of these orders. B1. D1. All of these orders. Then in 1952, on the 10th of June, on June 10, 1952, the basic principles of Committee of Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly submitted its interim report of the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly and recommended that the form of the future Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir shall be wholly democratic. The institution of hereditary rulership shall be terminated. The office of the head of state shall be elective. Then My Lords, the next is very important. 1952, the Delhi Government, Delhi Agreement of 1952 was entered into between the Government of India and the Government of Jammu and Kashmir. Under this agreement, the Government of India agreed that while residuary powers of the Legislature vested in Parliament in respect of other states, in the case of Jammu and Kashmir, such powers vested in the state itself. This is what My Lord, asked me the question. Now My Lords kindly read this document. It's very important. Volume 1 of the compilation of documents, Page 13, PDF 13. This doesn't seem to be the main agreement. This seems to be some summary of the features of the agreement. Yes, it's a summary of what I perceive. What happens, what the features are. Where is this summary taken from? Because the authenticity will depend on that. The very next page is there, My Lords, I believe. This is Sheikh Mohammed of Bludhar Statement to the Constituent Assembly on the Delhi Agreement on 11th August, 1952. That's at PDF 16. That's the actual extract. Yes. I can read that My Lords. I can read that. That's not the original either. I'll get you the original My Lords. They'll have it in any case. What? Yes. That's the extract from the original? Are you sure? What is that page? 13 is an extract of the original. Summary, actually. Bench which is of the right. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16? Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is the desire. Page 16 is the extract. Page 16 is actually Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah's statement to the Constituent Assembly. Kind of the statement, Your Lordships. Yes. Can I read the summary? My Lords, this is not something that will be... what we got it's seriously. It says that in view of the uniform and consistent stand taken by the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, the sovereignty in all matters other than those specified in the Instrument of Accession continues to reside in the State. Government of India agreed that while the residuary powers of the Legislature vested in the Centre in respect of all states other than Jammu and Kashmir, in the case of the latter, they vested in the State itself. It was agreed between the two governments that in accordance with Article 5 of the Indian Constitution, persons who have their domicile... we're not concerned with so much, whether it is a domicile issue. And I can read it. The two governments that in accordance with Article 5, persons who have their domicile in Jammu and Kashmir shall be regarded as citizens of India. State subject, Mr. Sibal may not be directly relevant. That's why I said. Then My Lords, 4 is the Union Government agrees that the State should have its own flag in addition to the Union flag. But it is agreed that the State Government, that the State flag would not be rival to the Union. It is also recognized the Union. Leave that out. How Sotheri Assat has to be... Yeah, that's what that also... Then, small Romans 6. Yes. With regard to the fundamental rights, some basic principles agreed between the parties were enunciated. It was accepted that the people of the states were to have their fundamental rights. But in view of the peculiar position in which the state was placed, the whole chapter relating to fundamental rights of the Indian Constitution could not be made applicable to the state. The question which remained to be determined was whether the chapter on fundamental rights should form a part of the State Constitution of the Constitution of India as applicable to the State. So it was not My Lords applied at that time. With regard to the Jutes, they leave that out on the Supreme Court. And then there was a great deal of discussion item 8. With regard to the emergency powers, the Government of India insisted on the application of Article 352, empowering the President to proclaim a general emergency in the State. State Government argued that in the exercise of its powers over defence, item 1 of the Union List, in the event of war and external aggression, the Government would have full authority to take steps and proclaim emergency. But the State delegation was, however, averaged to President exercising the power to proclaim a general emergency on account of internal disturbance, which ultimately Your Lordship knows was also taken out of the Indian Constitution under 352. At the relevant time it was there at the relevant time. It was there at the relevant time, but the State said we will not allow it to be exercised. We are just trying to think about it at the relevant time in 75. Yes, it was there. It was there. It was very much there. And this, to some subsequent orders, it equally applied to Jammu Kashmir and that. That's correct. Absolutely correct. This summary which my friend was in Delhi Agreement, summary, this has seems to have been taken out of this book, My Lord, of Justice A. S. Anand. It's not publicly available. Justice Anand has that. It's published. No, no, no. The agreement is not publicly available. So he has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? This is also part of the compilation. Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? This is also part of the compilation. Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? This is also part of the compilation. Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? This is also part of the compilation. Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? Justice Anand has given the authoritative statement in sense, what does it imply? This is also part of the compilation. Yes. Then My Lords, in order to meet the viewpoint of the State delegation, Government of India agreed to the modification of 352 in its application to Kashmir by the addition of the following words, but in regard to internal disturbance of the request or with the concurrence of the Government of the State. That's how My Lords. The parties agreed House in regard to the Constitutional relationship with Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Union. The Honourourable Members are aware, during the last session of the Constituent Assembly, the Basic Principles Committee had submitted a report making certain specific recommendations about the future head of the State House, while accepting these recommendations, had charged the drafting committee to present for the consideration of the Assembly, a draft resolution incorporating the proposed principles for the election of the head of state. Drafting Committee will no doubt submit its report to the House. Since the changes proposed in the Assembly involved corresponding adjustment in the Indian Constitution, Government of India desired that it should have time to discuss with other representatives, with other matters pertaining to the Constitutional Relationship of our State, with the Union during the last stage of these discussions, it became necessary for me and some of my other colleagues in the Government to participate in the talks. I'm now in a position to inform the House that certain broad principles have been laid down and certain decisions have been tentatively arrived at between the two Governments. The basis of our relationship with India is the Instrument of Accession, which enabled our State to enter into a Union with India in accordance with the terms of instrument of the instrument, certain powers were transferred to the Centre, the principal matters specified to the purpose in respect to which the Dominion Legislative could make laws for the State word. This arrangement involved a division of sovereignty, which is the normal feature of a federation beyond the powers transferred to it by to the Union. The State enjoyed complete residuary sovereign. That's why My Lords, when you read 370, you can't read into it other matters. These terms of the association of our State with the Dominion were maintained and subsequently when the Constituent Assembly of India was charged with the task of framing a Constitution, this overriding consideration is kept in view in determining the position of the State in the proposed Constitution. Earlier to this, it had been agreed between the two Governments that in view of the special problems arising in respect of the State and the fact that the Government of India have assured its people, they themselves finally determine their political future. A special position should be accorded to Jammu and Kashmir in the future Constitution. So the limited field of the Union powers over the State is ensured. Our representatives were nominated by the Jammu and Kashmir State to the Constituent Assembly of India. These representatives participated in the deliberations of the Assembly in India at a time when the bulk of the Indian Constitution has already been adopted. It was at this stage that the constitutional position of this state was determined in the Constitution of India. It's very important. It was in collaborative, a collaborative exercise, a dialogue. It was not behind the back of the Union or anything like that. They knew what was to happen in the future. Representatives of Jammu and Kashmir reiterated their view that our association with India should be based on the terms of the Instrument of Accession. It was at this stage that the Constitutional position was determined. The representatives of the Jammu Kashmir State reiterated their view that our association with India should be based on the terms of the Instrument of Accession. It was also made clear that while the accession of Jammu and Kashmir State with India was complete, in fact and law, to the extent of the subjects enumerated in this instrument, the autonomy of the State with regard to all other subjects outside the ambit of the instrument of accession should be preserved. Given a good deal of confused thinking and the uninformed criticism is indulged in some interested people. I would like to point out that the Constitution has confined the scope and jurisdiction of the Union passed to the terms of the instrument of accession with the proviso that they may be extended to such of the matters as the President may by order specify within currents of the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly. This is qu Madat's, the concurrent list matters. The special problems facing the State were thus taken into account and under the Constitution, the relationship approximated to that subsisting under the Instrument of Accession. The Constitution of India of the Indian Union, therefore, clearly envisaged the convening of a Constituent Assembly for the Jammu and Kashmir State, which would finally be competent to determine the ultimate position of the State in respect of the sphere of its accession, which would be incorporated as in the shape of permanent provisions of the Constitution. That's why, temporal. The rest really need not trouble Your Lordships. Then My Lords, the rigidory powers, it's important. Page 19, PDF 19. There is a heading of rigidory powers. It was agreed that while under the present Indian Constitution, the residuary powers vested in the Centre in respect of all the states other than Jammu and Kashmir in the case of our state, they vested in the state itself. This position is compatible with Article 370 of the Constitution of India and the Instrument of Accession on which this article is based. We've always held that the ultimate source of sovereignty resides in the people, is therefore from the people that all powers can flow. Under these circumstances, it is up to the people of Kashmir through this assembly to transfer more powers, mutual advantage, the custody of the Union. So what happens ultimately, and I'm just... since I will come to that later, is that Parliament exercised the will of the people of Jammu and Kashmir when they abrogated the article. That's what happened. They took upon themselves the constitutional responsibility of saying that we are now the legislature. We are the Constituent Assembly and we will exercise the will of the people of State of Jammu and Kashmir to say that we abrogate 370. In essence, that what happened? Is that possible constitutionally? Is that envisaged by 370? Is this not an exercise of political power without reference to 370? And can such a power be exercised in the manner in which it was exercised? That's a matter of procedure. Then there is citizenship. We need not go into it fundamental rights. We don't have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go into it. We have to go a matter of procedure. Then there is citizenship. We need not go into it fundamental rights. We don't have to go into all this. Now kindly come to list of dates again. Right? Back at 42 My Lords. Item 37. Article 370, sub-Article 3. PDF 42. My Lord Justice Kavai has? Lords, 42. My Lord, Justice Kavai has it? Yes, 37. Under? I'm just wondering whether all of Your Lordships have it. I have to say My Lords that I've been a... and even though I say it to myself, a good student because I can access it immediately. My second Constitution read... I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice who has made me take to this. I see the Chief Justice may take to this. No My Lords, I don't... My Lord, it has been taken as My Lord said to me, I'm not going to allow you to argue. So I had to learn. 37 My Lords, under Article 370, sub-Article 3 of the Constitution, the President, after the recommendation of the J&K Assembly issued notification 44, modifying 370 to include an explanation that the phrase State Government meant the Sardaria Reassists acting in aid and advice of the Council. Kindly note that. That was done by the Constituent Assembly. That's the only time, My Lords, they exercised their powers. With reference to 370. On 14th of May 1954, with the concurrence of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President issued the Constitution, adaptation to Jammu Kashmir Order 1954, which came into force on May 14, 1954. This order superseded the Constitution, applicated to Jammu Kashmir Order of 1950, which had only those limited provisions. Paragraph 2 of the said order, set those provisions of the Constitution, which in addition to Articles 1 and 370. Because that order only had Article 1 and 370, would be applicable and other than one, sorry, My Lord, other than one, would be applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Notably, a second proviso was introduced into Article 3 as applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir in the following terms, provided that no bill providing for increasing or diminishing the area. This is also very important. Of the State of Jammu, Kashmir are altering the name or boundary of that State shall be introduced in Parliament without the consent of the Legislature of that State. Your Lordship knows, My Lords, Article 3, they can change the boundaries. What happened in this case was, not that they changed the boundaries My Lords, they converted it into a Union Teleth, which is the other problematic issue, which of course we'll have to argue later. You can change the boundaries of a State. You can bifurcate the boundaries of a large state into smaller states, but never in the history of this country, has the state been converted into a Union Territory. You can carve out a Union Territory out of a state. You can carve out. But you can't have all of Madhya Pradesh being a Union Territory tomorrow. I'm just understanding the assurance that on assembly elections being held, Jammu and Kashmir will be ascertained. No, that's true. But My Lords, what they have converted it into a unity as of now. I mean, that's unthinkable. And under the article for Jammu and Kashmir, there was a special provision that that had to be consented to. That was also not done. So My Lords, you move away from representative to democracy, then got it into a Union Territory under your direct rule. You do away with representative democracy and five years have passed. Every day we hear, now we are going to soon have elections. But there has to be a constitutional basis for doing this My Lords. And kindly note one thing. In 2000, May 2019, there were parliamentary elections in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. In 2019 May, three months after this, this happened on the 6th of August, September, October, November, December, May, you have parliamentary elections. So can hold Parliamentary elections, but you will not hold State elections. But that's why I'm moving away to another issue altogether. So My Lords, then 39, 17-11-1956, the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir, an exercise of its constituent powers, approved and adopted the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. Which is why I started off with a proposition that the concept of a Constituent Assembly is a political exercise. That political authority, that political body can decide on the future of the State, could have decided on the future of the State. But that's a political decision. You want to abrogate 370, abrogate 370. You want to go, integrate into India completely, say we don't need a Constitution. But that's a political act. That political act cannot be exercised by Parliament, by a legislative body. Because that legislative body is controlled by the Constitution and its functions are controlled by the Constitution. It can't go beyond that, which is why I made that statement in the beginning. Then My Lords, 40. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, 1957 came into force on January 26, 1957. By means of this Constitution, the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, having solemnly resolved the presence of the Accession of the Constitution, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kashmir, the Constitution of Kash Constitution, the people of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, having solemnly resolved the presence of the accession of this State of India, which took place on 26th day of October 1947, to further define the existing relationship of the State with the Union of India as an integral part thereof. That's declared in the Constitution. Nobody can question that. Nobody need question that. Nobody can say that we are not being regarded as... we were not saying that we are not an integral part of India. Article 1 applies. Article 1 applies. And the Constitution defined that relationship. And having defined that relationship, you can't just judge a village. Section 5 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir provided that the legislative power of the State extended to all matters except those with respect to which Parliament had power to make laws for the State under the Constitution of India as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. And the Constitution of India as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Kashmir, as applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Legislative powers in the State were to lie with the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council. Significantly, Section 147, which dealt with amendments to the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, provided that no bill or amendment seeing to change the provisions of the Constitution of India as they applied to Jammu and Kashmir would be introduced or moved in either of the State Legislature. They had no authority once the Constitution had come into force and the orders passed. Then on 21-11-1964, the Constitution application to Jammu Kashmir, Third Amendment order of 1964, that is, C.O. 71, which amended the 54 order, made Article 356 applicable to the state with one notification that the expression included the Constitution... Sorry. Excluded the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. Included, yes. Included the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. Those are there in all? Which have been passed? You can just give the list. Volume 3, you have all the orders. You have now made your point on this. So all the orders... I'm not going to... I'm not asking Your Lordships, I'm not even going to read it My Lords. We're not going to go into all this. 54 orders are there around. 54 orders. Of course, of the Assembly. The Government section. Under D or under D? D1. No, B2 or D? D2 My Lords. D1. Not B2 or D2 or D1. D2 My Lords. D1. D1. The D only has to pass. The proviso. It's just D. D doesn't have a number 2. And most of them are amendments of the 54 order My Lords. 50 order, 54 order and then amendments to the 54 order. That's what it is. 42? Yeah, what is it next? My Lord is saying thatyouyou403. Yes. Your Lordships don't mind. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it. My Lords have it? PDF 44. The Kashmir Accord 75 was entered into between the Government of India and the Government of Jammu and Kashmir. Under Clause 1 of the Accord, the relationship of the State of Jammu and Kashmir with the Union was to continue to be governed by Article 370 of the Constitution. Now kindly note My Lords, the temporary provision was over. Still be governed. Why was this required to say it is to be governed if it is a permanent feature? Sorry? Why was there a requirement 27 to say this will continue to govern when it was a permanent feature? My Lords, it also reiterates the rigidity powers of the State. That's not the only thing that happens. It's just a reiteration of the position that was accepted by the Government of India throughout, which is a constitutional position. After all, it's a political accord My Lords. I mean, it has no legal basis that way. But it tells you of the intent of the signatories. Political change at that time. Yes, I know that. In any case, 75 is a momentous time in history of this country. Yes. Luckily, I was out of the country. My Lords, so I... Your Lordships, in response to the Sheikh Abdullah Settled... Yes, yes, yes.Yes.youyouYes. And then the deal for ultimately 14 years. The background is that whenever he came out, he was saying that, no, now give us autonomy, Give us autonomy. Which is in that context that the Accordion. You can't get out of 370. That's really the background to it. He was put in jail even by Mrs. Gandhi. So My Lords, the rest of the list of dates, kindly now see, come to straight to PDF 47. On 29th of March 2017, then of course the clamoring began, removed 370, do away with 370. That's a separate issue. I'm not concerned with that. You are on the 55 now? Yes, 55. Exactly My Lord. Justice Khanna has 55? Justice Gavai? That's Surya Khanna? Yes. Member of Ratnaan Dinaad raised a question whether the Minister of Law and Justice as to whether the Government proposes to amend and remove 370 related to Jammu and Kashmir in the near future. If so, details thereof. It's not the reason, therefore, whether this will help in providing equitable justice to the people of the state. And if so, the details thereof. Minister of State and Law and Justice, so and so and so at present there is no suchYes.57 is My Lords, Section 92. This is important. Item 57. Section 92 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir deals with provisions. In case of a failure of the Constitution of machinery in the State, the vision permitted the Governor to, by proclamation, assume to himself, all the powers and functions of the Government of the State. Such a proclamation would in terms of 925 require the concurrence of the President of India under 1923, would cease to operate six months after it was issued. On June 22, 2018, the Governor with the concurrence of the President issued a proclamation under 92, declaring Governor's would in the State. This is important. Now we're coming to the present controversy. We can do it tomorrow My Lord. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can then complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. We can complete tomorrow. WeYes.