 you you you you you you you you you you you you you Check. you you you you you So We'll repeat before we begin. But that's again, have some assessment from your side So, we take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We take it like this. We takema will answer. Now the time estimate I would suggest that you know we'll give a fairly comprehensive hearing to the the the first consult. After that I think the others can pick up whatever threads remain to be argued because if we start giving the same amount to second then we'll never have been going to issue. So once the ground has been covered by the council who's argued first, then after that, the second council, then what the others, I think. So we can continue until lunch tomorrow because we're starting right up in the morning. We'll take more than that because we have have to go through the history because this has to be dealt with in a historical context. All right, mother's, let me put it this way. I will try and do it. And if your logic speed, mother's that I need a little more time and logic. We're not going to feel that you know, because our conscience also has to be satisfied that we have heard the side of the matter of fully from them. That's alright but we don't have to read all the documents. That's why we didn't submission the file. So Mr. Thart of it is historical one. That's's right. But that history is important. Which is very tough. I agree. Some part of the history at what time. But I don't even let my head in his dream. Not at all of course. Yeah, yeah. The big of the original property film to be decided. The three of the workshops on this matter once before. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Stripman. Mr. Subramanam and Mr. Shikar, now I have you know I shouldn't say build for eight hours but at least it's said that they are going to take eight hours. So yeah, so I think the eight hours in ten hours for Mr. Subramanam I think that's a little bit of an overstatement I think we'll have to cut down that and Mr. Nari, we'll also request of the 25th question of the reference on those two journalists, if it was for the preliminary issue was frame, whether 96 people. Most parties, I'm sorry, and the most parties argued the merits of the matter. Look, they did not rule and some of the people told us that the principal, I'm not going to check. They're right. They're all not going to notice the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm not saying the, I'm sorry. لیکن یہاں بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی بھی لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنوشیب، لنو I addressed your lordships only on the reference. Only Raju Ramshandran and Z wrong will just be breached and here mentioning whether something very urgent. There's a provision in the latest SOP. There are lotships. I've just been there. There's a provision in the SOP. Security and email. I said that, you know, however urgent something is once the mentioning is not available or the're mentioning it over just an email will be put up to me by the register, I'll pass orders immediately. So you follow just read the SOP, it has everything in that. Because all your launch effects were efficient, where think yesterday, every mentioning request which was made until late 90s today was attended to, I was in fact a little more liberal because I knew that this is going to happen that we are the first five are going to be in a constitution bin all requests have been granted if there's something over and above that the SOP has a provision even for that follow the SOP I'll give you a date. Yes. So we will miss a simple will start. You have any clear question? Mr Sharma, what do you want to say? Mr Sharma, I can anticipate what you are saying. Yeah, I want to say. We are not calling this matter by the name of any individual litigate. We are saying in re Article 370, I think that should resolve your problem. I'm sorry. Agreed. My request is only that of course, I filed a fucked petition. I have a very serious issue with me. Permit me to Argo in the last. I'm not saying allow have to point whatever you are going to be submitted by anyone over here. I have total different things. Sharma, we will be the last batch. But maybe this is a really big. Based upon what is I would want points of formulated how etcetera and before but they end, we would not indicate our time. We have understood that concern that there should not be any reputations. Reputation, unvalentate reputation and so forth. Yes, yes, made decision. Point of clarification, a lot of, I was appointed, the local Council unfortunately, I have not able to present that down with conjectivitis, but repetition civil 1099 2019 in which Mr. Ramshandhara was appearing. Although two parties have withdrawn, there are other petitions who are still prosecuting this case and that will be representation for that as well. We are still hoping that Mr. Ram's first hear the, the council and then we'll see what remains. The court is to decide. He is suggested the time frame. We will then we'll see. Of course, we will, we will not. We'll certainly decide at the end of the, once we have a few of the leading council who make their submission, we know what areas still remain. We will assign sometime. Yes, Mr. Mr. Secretary. Say, will we arrange which petition so then we can have that? So, it's in the 37G now. No, who are you represented? So, that we can consider? First, whether that your Lord Jesus will be analysing why His tree was tossed out on the 6th of August 2019. Whether that, whether the procedure adopted by Parliament was consistent with what democracy stands, Whether the will of the people of the Muin Kashmir could be silenced in this fashion, whether they will be denied a representative form of government through a dictat of the union inconsistent with our constitution. It is also historic because it is taken five years for your Lordship's Moulins to start hearing this case. And for five years Moulins, there have been no representative government in the state of Jammu in Kashmir. It is also historic because you will have to interpret Article 356 of the Constitution of India. In Article which seeks to restore democracy and how will that process through an article which sought to restore democracy, you have decimated democracy. Can that be done under Article 356 3.56? That the state of Jammu and Kashmir historically represented a very unique relationship, unlike Prince Lee State's and the States of India which were integrated into the Union. Whether that historic relationship between sovereign authorities, would have jets and in this fashion by seeking to amend the constitution and seeking to ifay sartigals 37. Whether malaj, a governor of a state, would have on the 20th of June 2018 decided that I will keep this, keep the assembly under suspended animation which is the part of the governor alone on the JKT and K Constitution. Without even trying to find out whether they can form a government or not. Because on the 19th of June a particular party with room support under the 20th of June the governor passed this order. Whether on the 21th of June, a particular party with room support under the 20th of June, the governor passed this order. Whether on the 21st of November 2019, a 2018, a dissolution of the assembly could have taken place before the imposition of article, the governor on the 21. The governor on the 21st of June dissolved the SM without reference to C-15. And thereafter article 356 was used and the manner that it was used will be malice, I will address your logic on those issues. These are issues that will arise for your logic, come at consideration, never raised, never decided by this court. So in that sense too, it is historic. Somalad, I would proceed because there is a historical context to the state of Jammu and Kashmir. So I will have to take your law chips through that history. And if your law chips will permit me, I will start with the list of the day the transcripts will be given to the arguing council your juniors can just verify that there are no mistakes if they any corrections they can be given to the registries so that we will couple of them immediately on our website so they are available for everybody then too that will also help council of following and because it helps us as well as well as everybody else. Some of the that start off with a list of dates which is valid two. Which on submissions, volume two, PDF page 33. Well, let's get volume 2 PDF page 33, we were reluctant students withabeled because in your flavor what the issues are. Bir ay mı? 13. Yeah. Five. Yeah. That's so absurd. Yeah, I remember. It was a bit. It can sub-vute. you Now let's before this, may I just state one, want to make one statement clear on us that we stand here on the premise that the integration of Jamaw and Kashmir into India is unquestionable. Was unquestionable and always remain unquestionable. That was a given and despite that mother's the whole structure was overnight mother's change through a process which I will demonstrate with unconstitutional. When your launches will be dealing with this matter, there will be four legislation in a sense that you will be dealing with. One is the constitution of India. The second is the constitution of India as applicable in the state of Jammu in Kaspir. Third is the Constitution of Jammu in Kaspir and fourth is Article 370. The interaction between these three constitutions in the context of Article 370 is something that your Lord Jesus will have to look at as we move forward. But please keep that in mind. The reason why I say Constitution of India is applicable to the state of Jamhu in Kashmir that over time, there were several orders issued constitutional orders from time to time which were incorporated in the Constitution of India that the people were committed to. The result was that most of the powers that were that most of the responsibilities and powers were actually intended with the Constitution of India. It was in fact really no difference other than Article 370 itself. All the laws were applicable except that those laws were replicated in the Constitution orders of the government of India therefore there was no reason to take away this right it's in that context, Miller that I mentioned in his name, Miller's I wrote in the Global Distance. On the 9th of March 1846, the Treaty of Lahore was executed, between Maharaja and Lahore and the British Government, resulting in the transfer of certain territories to the Eastern Yakampani, in particular under Article 4 of the Treaty. The Maharaja seats to the honorable company on its forced territories by some interests, in the Hild countries, which are situated between the river, P Beas and Indus, including provinces of Kashmir and Hazar. Earlier, Jamus, Maraja Gulab Singh's General Zoravarsing had invaded the dark in 1834. The dark came under Dogra Duran and was incorporated into the state of Jamamo'a and Kashmir in 1846. During the Sinosique War, the Queen Empire invaded La Dada for the Sinos Tibetan Army was defeated. La Dada was claimed as a part of Tibet by Funtstok Vangya, a Tibetan Communist leader. In 1947, Partition left La Dada, part of the Indian state of Jamo'a and Kashmir to be at Minister Trump's synagogue. On the 16th of March 1846 following the Treaty of Lahore, the British government executed the Treaty of Amritsa on March 16, 1846. Under the Treaty, the Hili mountainous country with its dependence is situated in the East of River Indus and West of River Ravi, including Jambha and the There was a violation of the treaty of Lahore and therefore compensation had to be paid for us to the British government. He was not able to pay that compensation. In lieu of that compensation, these territories were seated. That's what that. On the 30th of June 1857, Golap Singh died and was succeeded by a son-in-beasing, following the passage of the Government of India Act 1858, territory's formerly imposition under control the and was succeeded by Maharaja Kratopsi. In 1889, 30th of August, the Interpression Act of 1889 was passed by the UK Parliament, section 184 of the Act defined the expression British India. All territories and places within our Majesty's dominion, which are for the time being governed by her Majesty through the Governor General of India. In addition, the term India was defined under Section 185 as British India, together with any territories of any native prince or chief under the sovereignty of a majesty exercise to the Governor General of India, you will know Chandramalajamu and Kashmir is not part of this. In 1925, Maharaja Pratap Singh was succeeded by Maharaja Haris Singh, the last ruler of the princely state of the Amulim besweet. And on the 20th of April 1927, the expression state subject was defined in the state subject definition notification day to the April 20 1927, which was issued by Maraja Haris Singh. This notification classified state subjects into four classes, and subsequently, became the basis for the definition of permanent residents of Jammu and Kashmir under the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, an article 35K of the Constitution of India. Your logic need not go into it because we are not dealing with that. So that is mentioning it. On the 22nd of April, 1934, Maraja Haris Singh enacted regulation one of some birth 1991 on April, 2012, 1934. Wherever there is some birth, if you take away 57 years, that gives you the year. The regulation established a legislative assembly for the state of Jambhu and Kashmir called the Prasasava. While certain legislative functions were delegated to the Prasasava, the Rurda, Maraja Haris Singh retained supremacy over all legislative and judicial matters. On the 2nd of August 1935, the government of India Act 1935 was passed by the UK Parliament. The act established India as a Federation comprising governor's provinces, chief commissioners' provinces, the Indian states which had or would exceed the Lothederation of India. Under section 6 of the set, the ruler of Indian princely states was empowered to execute an instrument of accession, declaring that he exceeds the Federation of India, subject to the terms of such instrument. Under section 2, an instrument of accession was to specify matters with respect to which the federal legislature would have competence to legislate for the particular state and the limitations, if any, on the federal legislatures powers to make laws of exercising the equitivity authority over such state. Notably, as the state of Jamo and Kashmir was not a part of British India, provisions of the government of India act 1935 did not apply to it. Unless an instrument of accession was executed by a ruler in accordance with section 6. On 7 September 1939, the Jamo and Kashmir Constitution Act 1939 was promulgated. While Maraja Haris Singh retained sovereignty and supremacy over all legislative executive and judicial functions, the act provided the project of her to make laws for the entire state of Jamo and Kashmir or any part thereof subject to certain conditions. Further, the said act vested executive functions with council consisting of a prime minister in other ministers appointed by the ruler. The act also provided for the high court which had been established by the ruler in 1928 to be a court of record with jurisdiction to allocate upon inter-area civil criminal and revenue. From the 16th of May 9th, The and envisaged a union of India where the union would have responsibility over defense, foreign affairs and communications, and the states would retain jurisdiction over all other subjects, not seated to the union. On the 12th, 22nd of May 1946, the cabinet mission issued a memorandum titled states, treaties and ballot, but and paramounts, which affirmed that following these tablishment of an independent government in India, the paramounts of the British monarchy over Indian states would last and paramounts, apart over their respective territories would return to the states. On the 19th of December 1946, the constituent assembly of India in terms of the cabinet mission plan met for the first session. On the 20th, the January 1947, the constituent assembly of India unanimously adopted the objectives resolution which declared the assemblies firm and solemn resolve to proclaim India as an independent sovereign republic. Importantly, paragraph 3 of the objective's resolution declared that princely states that had joined the Union of India, and I quote, whether with their present boundaries or with such others as maybe determined by the constituent assembly, and thereafter according to the law of the Constitution, Shalpuzes sent between the stages of autonomous units together with residual e-powers and exercise all powers and functions of government and administration, same and except such powers and functions as are vested in or assigned in the union. On the 25th of January 1947, the constituent assembly adopted a resolution. The establishment of the Union powers committee to inter-alier draw up lists of matters included in the and interconnected with the subjects assigned to the union before the framing of the constitution. From the 5th of July 1947, the Union powers committee submitted its second report of the Constitution at Assembly. Signific on the basis of the 16th May statement. Some of them have expressed themselves as willing to see it wider powers to the center than contemplated in that statement. But we consider it necessary to point out that the application to states in general of the Federal List of Subjects in so far as it goesth-May statement, it should be with their consent. It follows from this that in their case, the Regidity Powers would waste with them unless they consent to their vesting in the center and your logic knows whether that consent was given. The UK Parliament on 18 July 1947 passed the Indian Independence Act of 1947. Under one one section one one of the Act from August 15, 1947 to independent dominions India and Pakistan were to be established. Significantly section seven one year of the Act stated that following independence the Suswanti of the British monarch over Indian states would lapse and return to the rulers of such states. Resultantly as sovereign states as many as 562-5 states are the choice to remain independent or exceed to either of the two dominions established by the act. Last year the transitional measure section 8 prescribed that provisions of the government of India Act 1935 would continue to apply to the dominion of India and Pakistan subject to certain conditions. The section 9 of the Indian Independence Act, the governor general issued the India provisional constitutional order 1947 which made certain sections of the Government of India at 1935, applicable to India. Until other provisions were made by the Pinsley to the Assembly. Among the applicable provisions was section 6, which dealt with accession of Prince of the State's Pinsley stands to India to the execution of the instrument of accession. On the 15th of August, India attained independence and was partitioned into the dominions of India and Pakistan. Further, as British paramounts he had lapsed, previously states that had not executed instruments of accession with either dominion became independent states. These included the states of Dunaagar, eitherwad, Jamun Kashmir. On 26 October 1947, the ruler of Jamun Kashmir made an offer of accession to India asking for help from the Indian Dhuminian to meet a grave emergency caused by mass infiltration of tribesmen, from the distant area of North West Frontier, coming regularly in motor tracks Manshira, Muzafrabad, and Fuli, the the government of Exession signed by him on the same date he declared his Exession to India subject to the term of such instrument and the section three of the instrument, the dominion legislature had authority to make laws for the state of Jammu and Kashmir on the subjects of defense external affairs and communication article seven provided that the instrument of Exession did not commit the ruler to the acceptance of any future constitution of India while section eight vested sovereignty over the determine what are the constituent assembly stand for? They constituent assembly stands for enacting a constitution for the future of the territories with respect which the constitution is to apply. It's essentially a political exercise. It's not a legal exercise. It's a political exercise to take into account the aspirations of people what kind of state the people want and in the context of that graph the constitution. Like the constitution itself with a political document would they take into account the aspirations of several segments of society living within a united territory, kicks into account their separator aspirations, and in the context of that drafts a constitution to meet the aspirations in future years for decades to come. So the exercise of constituent assembly is a political exercise. The drafting of the constitution, which is a political document, is a political expression. Once the constitution is drafted, once it is coming to place, then all institutions under the constitution are governed by the Constitution and those institutions are limited in the exercise of their past because they have to exercise their past consistent with the provisions of the Constitution. Parliament can't say by a resolution that we are the constituent of the Senate. As a matter of law, they can't say it. Because they are now cabbied and clipped and confined by the provisions of the constitution. They can't pass a law, which is outside the list. They can pass a law under 250-4. If the state passes a law, it's repugnant. They must adhere to the basic features of the constitution. The conscious spend accepting the emergencies, way external aggression, the fundamental rights of people. That also is limited under provisions of the constitution. The executive can't bother two things which are contrary to the law and the judiciary then declares the law. But no parliament can convert its self into a constitution. And if you accept that proposition of law, it has enormous consequences for the future of my country. And that is one of the most salient and according to me, the core issues to be decided in this case. Because parliament converged, said that we declare the legislation of the state of of Jamu and Kashmir as the constituent assembly. Where I now below the solution? Re- Jesus will have to decide. And Malatz within six days these decisions were taken. Because the Vedas came, they were armed, they had guns, they would have run over the stage. The ruler realized that he cannot secure the security of his own people. He had entered into a standstill agreement with Pakistan, India refused to enter into a standstill agreement with India. And then, thereafter what happened? Thereafter what happened was that he said, look, I need help and he told Mang back and I cannot possibly take you all the time by people. So thereafter, when the proceedings started, he sought and he said, look, if you help me, I will unconditionally access to India's subject to my own conditions, which is separate Malat's from the instruments of access to other states. And India accepted it. And that's how India secured the peace and was able to Malat's. And of course, the precursor to that is the rakel of award. In terms of which Murazvi, the part of Burdas Court would connect it to Jamun Kashmir brothers to India, was seated to India under the Rack Cliff Award which allowed for that continuity which was the basic principle of the basis of which the partition was to take place. So that's how all this happened. Now let me read to your logic series to my next session. Volume 1, Melence. Documents, volume 1. Melence kindly come to PDF page. PDF page 7, offer a succession by Maharaja Haris Singh on 26 October 1947. Okay. Documents volume 1, let's tell her. Easy if needed, also, so. of a particular place. This is in the age group. the Yes, I'm not seven. Yes, I'm not seven. Yes, I'm a success in Bamaara. We're getting with faith, seven. Yes, faith, seven. 26th October, 19th, all of you, sir. Yes, one you want. Yes. My lord, my lord, lord, man, that is the later. So, I have to inform my name. I have to inform your excell, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my cultural links with both of them. Besides, my state is a common boundary with the Soviet Republic of China. It should be, and China, it should be. I saw the antenna. In their external relations and the union of India and Pakistan cannot ignore this fact. I wanted to take time to decide to which to be I should exceed basically, but I wanted to be independent quite frankly. But given this situation here, not choice. Or whether it is not in the best interest of both the dominions and my state to stand independent, of course, with friendly and quality relations in both. I accordingly approached the dominions of India and Pakistan, and entered into a standstill agreement with my state. Pakistan government accepted this agreement. The dominion of India desired further discussions with the government. I could not arrange this in view of the developments in the GATI below. In fact, the Pakistan government are operating post-inteligrat system inside the state. Though we have got a standstill agreement with the Pakistan Government permitted steady and increasing strangulation of supplies like food, salt and petrol in my state to my state. Afrizi soldiers in plain clothes and desperatos with modern weapons have been allowed to infiltrate into the state at first in Bunch in the National Court. There was a Bunch report through that and finally in mass area, a joining has our artistic to the Ram Court side. The result has been that the limited number of troops at the disposal of the state had to be dispersed and thus had to face the enemy. The several points, several simultaneous. That it has become difficult to stop the want and discussion of life and property and routine. To Mahara powerhouse, which supplies electric current to the whole of Shina Garas bit burnt, the number of women who have been kidnapped and raped makes my heart need. The wild forces that let loose on the state are marching on with the aim of capturing three-nodder, with some a capital of my government as first step to overrun in the whole state. The mass infiltration tribesmen drawn from the distant areas of northwest frontier, coming regularly in motor trucks using Manshaila, Mazar Farabar's road and fully armed with up-to-date weapons cannot possibly be done without the knowing of the provincial government of the NWFP and the government of Pakistan. In spite of repeated requests made by my government, no attempt has been made to check these Vedas or stop them from coming to my state. The Pakistan Radio even put up this put out a story that a provincial government has been set up in Kashmir. the situation as I say, I know option, I have no option, but to ask for help from the Indian dominion. Naturally, they cannot send the help asked for by me without my state exceeding with the dominion of Indian. I have accordingly decided to do so. And I attached the instrument of accession for acceptance by your government. The other alternatives to leave process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of my prime minister. If my state has to be saved, the media assistance must be available at sea level. Mr. Manan is fully aware of the situation and he will explain to you if further explanation is needed in hise and with kind of stereotypes. It is part of the rule. So he was against the sub-area's and so to say. But Mueller's when he realized that look, unless I get him on my side, I'm not going to be able to defend. So he Mueller's released it and said you form the internal. Just like historical fact. That's how it happened. Yeah, I know that, but I want to bring politics into it. The I take somebody's name they're the other side no no no no no no nothing to do with it so I don't want to enter into politics here no politics I don't want fireworks in a very solemn occasion like this. That's really the that kind of a world. you you you So, there's now the instrument of accession page 9. Actually, the logic knows more than reading one. The logic knows more about Indian media. We always keep learning. The Zara's, my learned colleague points out is a very interesting step is a transfer of power documents as to how this happened and we keep learning. Actually, it's a simple term. And just told them there was seven miles from the Sunagar. Yes. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. Absolutely. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. The Redis. provides the task. It's obvious Malah's 15th August was independence. He did not immediately succeed. All the other Smara does succeeded apart from those two. Junar Al-Halal and Hyderabad. He never wanted to. It's only in October that this happened. Whereas the Indian Independence Act 1947 provides that as from the 15th day of August 1947, they shall be set up an independent dominion known as India. And that the government of India Act, 1935 shall, with such emissions, additions, adaptations and modifications of the government general, may be able to specify, be applicable to the dominion of India. And whereas the government of India at 1935, as so adopted by the government general provides that an Indian state may exceed to the dominion of India by an instrument of accession, executed by the liberal India. Now therefore I, Shiman Indar Mahendra Rajeshwar, Maharaj, Vidri Raj, Sri Hani Singh ji, Jamu and Kashmir Nareesh, Tathar Thipag and Deesh, Deesh. Deesh, Shadim Pachya, Tipakth Rulur of Jamu and Kashmir State and the exercise of my sovereignty in and over my six-day do a bi-exicum, this instrument. Bi-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a- the subject always to the term they're all and for the purposes only of the dominion exercise in relation to the state of jamo and Kashmir such functions as maybe vestid in them by or under the government of India in 1935 as in force in the dominion of India on the 15th day of August 1947 such function they're never invested I hereby assume the obligation of ensuring that new effect is given to the provisions of the hand within the state so far as they are applicable therein by virtue of my instrument of extension. I accept the matter specified in the schedule here too as the matters which respect to which the dominion legislation may make law for the state. I hereby declare that I exceed to the Dominion of India on the assurances. The development is made between the governor, Jim, and the ruler of the state. Whereby any functions in relation to the administration of the state of any law of the Dominion Legislature will be exercised by the ruler of the state that any such agreement shall be construed and have effect accordingly. In terms of this instrument of accession, my instrument of accession shall not be buried by any amendment of the act or the Indian Independence Act 1947 unless such equipment is accepted by being by instrument supplementary to the system. Nothing in this instrument shall empower the dominion legislature to make any law for this sub-this state authorizing the compulsory acquisition of land for any purpose. But I hear by undertake that should the dominion for the purpose of a dominion law which applies in the state de-met necessary to acquire any land. I will have their request acquire an event that their expense, or if the land belongs to me, transfer it to them on such terms that may be agreed or in default of agreement determined by an arbitrator to be appointed by Chief Justice of India. Nothing is this instrumental be deemed to commit in any way to my acceptance of any future constitution in India or to fetter my discretion to enter into an agreement with the government of India under any such future constitution. Nothing is an instrument affects the continuance of my sovereignty in and over the state or save us provided by or under this instrument the exercise of any power authority and rights now enjoyed by me as a ruler of the state, all the validity of any loyal at President's in fourth in this state. Now here by declare, and I execute this instrument on behalf of the state, in that any reference to this instrument to me, ought to the ruler of the state is to be construed as including reference to my errors and successes. And the acceptance your lot's use will find at 11. Now here by accept this instrument of accession, dated this 20th day of October 27th day of October 9, 14, 14, 7. Now let's, sorry. What is this? Whether it's now, there is a schedule to this access this session which is not in this document but would my Lord be kind enough to turn to document all you for PDF page 176. That has the schedule one. So, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say, we are going to say the union vested in the state, residity power did not vested in the relationship of J.N.K. with the union. So it was quintessentially a truly federal marriage so to say. Actually the resolution within when it was passed by the constituent assembly initially contemplated that the rest of the Power would be with the states. And it was between the time of that resolution and the eventual adoption of the Constitution that the Residory Power and the entry 97 came to the, the RIMPILS Center. But the all-excepted reformalism of that. But here, this issue was somewhat different. Now, but within the shadow of the infre. Now, let us kindly see the scheduled defense naval military and air forces of the dominion and any other armed force based on maintain by the Dominion and any armed forces, including forces raised on maintain by an exceeding state, which are attached to a operating with any of the armed forces of the Dominion, naval military and air force works at administration of control and materials, arms, firearms, ammunition, explosives, An external effect, like implementing of treaties, agreements, other countries, extricion, including surrender of criminal, accused person, the parts, parts of humanities, dominions outside India. Admission into an immigration, expulsion from India, including in relation to the regulations, the movements in India of persons who are British subjects, Thomas Islander India, or subjects of any exceeding state building images to places beyond naturalization, then communications post-central graphs, including telepons wireless broadcasting. Like forms, and ways that are true, we need not to enter this maritime shipping navigation port, quarantine major ports. And then, whether it's aircraft, lighthouses, carriage of passengers, and then X-ancidity, elections to the dominion legislature subject to the provisions of the act and the many order made there under. Offences against laws with respect to any of the opposite matters in queries and statistics for the purpose of the many of the opposite matters. And jurisdiction in part of all courts with respect to any of the adversities matters in quiet and statistics for the purpose of the many of the adversities matters. The jurisdiction in the power of all courts with respect to many of the adversities matters, but except with the consent of the goal of the exceeding state, not so as to confer any jurisdiction of the power of the punini courts other than courts ordinarily, exercising in or in relation to the state. So that's that's what these subjects did they correspond specifically to certain entries on the government of India act? No matter the subject, no matter the state were with the reference to those residing in the state. Those who had come to the state, those who were in Pakistan and came back. So that's a 1927 order which I'll point your logic later. Possibly the subjects which the instrument of accession recognizes in terms of the legislative paths of the dominion must cover certain specific entries in the government of India. So these subjects have for instance different funny to people. It would be certain specific entries in the government of India act with reference to which there was an accept the government find that out and tell your logic. Which part of the government of India covers these moves? I appreciate it. Then Malar's kind of go back. Come back to volume one. Yes. Then come to Madhans. Reply from Lord Man's bathroom to Maharaja Haris. That's a page 12. Is? Page 12. My dear Mahar my rise aside. Your Highness is later dated 26th of October has been delivered to me by V.V. Menon. In the special circumstances mentioned by your Highness, my government have decided to accept the accession of Kashmir State to the dominion of India. Consistently with their policy that in the case of any state. has been restored in Kashmir in a soil declared clear of the invader. The question of the state's accessions should be settled by reference to the people. Meanwhile, in response to your analysis of the bill for military aid, action has been taken today to send troops of the Indian Army to Kashmir, to help your own forces to defend your territory and to protect the lives property in honor of your people. My government and I note, it's satisfaction that your highness is decided to invite Jacob, the former intern government work with you with your prime and a stunt. Stay. And we go back to the list of the U.S. you Because here is 30-30-30. Because here page 30, 8, 30, and I've already read to you a lot, just models the acceptance letter amount back. So, models we go to 23, 5th of March 1948. You want to go back to the list of dates and if you go back to the list of dates, we do have 38 volume 1. What is your reading list of mass in the pattern entry? Because I have already read the 20 second of October, later on the fifth of March 9, or my note has them. For new one, PDF page 38. Well, fifth of March 1943. The ruler, you know say father, the ruler Maharaja, I am sorry. Same Lord of Dayside I was eating. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase is its volume 2. Subcase Yes. this is that volume 6 pdf page 2 42 that is volume 6 pdf page 2 42 Bagaimana? 42. Sebenarnya, kita akan menurutkan peluang. Say as millions if you are launching transit. So, I have just so you can't have. Only 242 millions volume six. PDF page 242. Running page is one two nine one. The kind. As Maraja on the 5th of March 1948. That's the one. I want to like run a page one to nine one. That's correct. That's correct. Well, we have to show PDF. Otherwise this becomes difficult. goes. We can see the Quick us. Okay. Yes. In a quantity of the tradition tradition. When it all of them, correspond to the provisions of the government of the Axis. Yes. They were more there, but they were vital down. That's all. But they do correspond. This one too. And so you're not sure something. In accordance with the traditions of my dynasty, I have from time to time provided for increasing association of my people with the administration of the state with the objective realizing the goal of full responsible comment. At as early a date is possible and in pursuance of that object have by the government, the constitutional government with the council of ministers. He legislated with the majority, that's the, the majority elected members and in the pen and judiciary. the with a head entry ruler, or my dynasty as the constitutional head of an executive responsible to the legislature. I've already appointed the popular leader of my people, Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, as the head of the emergency administration. It is now my desire to replace the emergency administration by popular entertainment government and to provide for its power, duties and functions, pending the formation of a fully democratic constitution accordingly, or dayness follows. My council of ministers and consists of the prime minister, the the other minister self-functional is a cabinet, and act on the principle of joint responsibility. The one appointed by me should also be a member of the cabinet. I take this opportunity of giving once again a solemn assurance that all sections of my people will have opportunities of service both civil and military solely on the basis of their merit in every respective or created community. My council of minister should take appropriate steps as soon as restoration of normal conditions has been completed to convene a national assembly. Based upon adult franchise suffrage, having due regard to the principle that the number of representatives from each voting area should as far as practical will be a purpose to the population of that area. In a way, but if he was adopting the principles, but adopted by us. The constitution to be framed by the national assembly the as the work of framing the new constitution is completed, submitted through the council of ministers for my acceptance. In conclusion, I repeat and hope that the formation of a popularity and government and the inauguration of the near future were fully democratic constitution, we will ensure the contentment, happiness and moral material advancement of the people. So go back to volume 2, written summation's compilation volume 2, PDF page 38 again. This is when the 1949 item PDF page 38. We'll urge you in a football field when there is no playmothers that time has to be excluded. There's always a play going around. I submit to him. Who would better know about plays than you was to sit there? I submit to that. I submit to that. I'm out of the problem. 95 to 95, right? This is the, this is the, this is the, can stitch with the same story. Sorry. Now, 9 December 1947 to September 49, previously states underwent the process of integration into the Indian, by signing murder agreements of covenants of unionization. The state of Jamoj Kusheed was not a part of this process of integration. That's important. By the governance of unionization various princely states entered into governance with each other to form single units. For example, through a covenant, the princely states of problem. Well, it's a loss if need not needed because this is the last year's want. United States of travel and foreign coaching, between May 48 to September 49, the states of Saudi Arabia, Madhya Bharat, Pepsu, Matsya, Rajasthan, travel and coaching, signed revised instruments of excitation, which interlated and large the part of the dominion legislature, for meeting it to enact laws on all matters in this 2003, the government of India Act 1935, and cancelled all previous instruments of excitation entered into by rulers of Prince Lee State, headed into the Government's referred to above. you مرسی ارسیر میں نوضت The September 1949. Now the November 1949 through their respective rulers, large promotes the states of Saurāstra Pepsu, Rākistan, Madhivāra, Mysore and Trabampur and Pocinuma. So this issues proclamation stating that the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by the Constitutional Assembly shall be the Constitution for the state as well as the parts of India and shall be enforced as such in accordance with the tenor of its provisions. When the fifth of November 49 following the proclamations of our rubraq karan Singhishu proclamation for the state of Jammu in Kashmir, the constitution of India shortly to be adopted by the constitution of the same Indian. Shalayan so far is applicable to the state of Kashmir, govern the constitution of the nationship between the state and the contemplated union of India. We don't have to go to the government because it's all set out here. Then 26th of January, 1950. In exercise of its constituent part, the constituent assembly dropped in the constitution of India, which was adopted in November, 26, 1949. The Constitution of India came into force in January, 26, 15, 15, in the Indian Independence Act. The relationship between the Constitution and the State of Jambhu Mikeshmili was governed by Article 3, 17 Constitution. It is evident that both the text of Article 3, 17 and the that preceded its formulation. The Article 370 could not be changed, unilaterally by parliament. That's what that's, it's a great significance. Then, by the last 26th of January, 1953. Same day, in exercise of parts under Article 37, T-Saw article, one of the Constitution. The following consultations with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, the President Issue. This is the first Constitution application to Jammu and Kashmir order 1950. Under paragraph two of this order, matters in the first scheduled to the order were declared to correspond to matters seated to the Union of India through the instrument of accession and subsequently the power of Parliament to make laws for jump-wane Kashmir was limited to such matters. Furthermore, paragraph 3 of the order declared that in addition to Articles 1 and 3, 70 of the Constitution, revision specified in the second schedule to the order would apply to the state of Jammu in Kashmir. It's important for us to go to this document, volume 3 of the documents and the LUTs PDF page 470 sorry exact page 4 which for NAR47 which for NAR47. This is the first constitution order. And can you note this, this is on the same day on the Republic day that you sign this, do this. That's a great significance. In exercise of the past convert by close one of Article 370 of the Constitution of India, the President in Concentration of the Government of the State of Jammu, could be to speak to matters specified in the instrument of accession, governing the accession of the state of Jamo and Kashmir to the union of India. As the matter with regard to which the dominion registered to mimic laws for the state and accordingly the power of parliament to make laws for the state shall be limited to the matters specified in the first city. In addition to the provisions of Article I and Article 370 of the Constitution, the only other provisions of the Constitution which shall apply in relation to the state of Jammu in Kashmir. Shall be those specified in the second schedule to the order and shall so apply subject to the exception of the modifications specified in the said schedule. Hand to the modification that all references in the said provisions to the Raj Prabhup, shall be construed as references to the southern area set of Jammu in Kashmir. of the area of the area of the area second schedule, the whole 90s, I don't know, about 90s, I don't know. Yes, 90s, I don't know. It's taken, they've taken the entries of the Constitution. It's less to the... Some are skipped, but they're not 96. On transfer, from 30 to 31 to 41 is missing. 32, yes, the several that are missing. So, you same serial number, that's correct, that's all there is. At least one. For us, part of the instrument of accession actually. That defense military. No, that cannot be correct. That's a simple instrument of accession. The issue which is short was far more restricted. These are making. You can say these are more elaborate elaborate. No, no, no, they are not corresponded. They do not correspond. They are not corresponded. The sense that they relate to defense, that I'm not saying anything more than that. They relate to defense. They relate to external defense. That's all that I'm saying. Because the entries in the union list. Who read out the second should you earlier at page two, if I'm not mistaken, 1.90 second at minute. I am not disputing that. 1.77 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute. 1.90 second at minute.4 133. Just one more clarification. This is by an order. This is by a administrative order. Yeah under article 3 1770. Yes, yes, that's what I told you. No, it is in the initial state constitution of India as applicable to the state of Jungung Kesharek by a law. That's all I mean. the state of the council of states and the House of the people respectively shall be chosen by the president in consultation with the government of the state. So that was one of the variations. Articles 54 55 share the apply subject to the modifications that reference is therein to the elected members of both thousands of parliament and to each elected member of either house of parliament shall be deemed to include respectively a reference to the representatives of the state in these house those houses and to each such representative. The references to the elected members who legislatively was simply to the state and to each such elected members shall be deemed to include respectively a reference to the members of the constituent assembly of the state and to each such member and that the population of the state shall be deemed to be Now articles 14 and 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15 15, 15 15, 15 15, 15 15, 15 15, 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 laws two and three of Article three to what is actually not applied in relation to the state. So no issue of dependency of anything like that. They cannot molars, past laws because the rigidory power in the state. Then 250 nine shall apply subject to the modifications. But after the word until parliament by law otherwise provides the words and the concurrence of the state to such law has been obtained shall be deemed to be inserted. Article 266 shall apply only in Subharajic Lates to the consolidated fund of India and the Public Account of India. Article 282284 shall apply only in Subharajic Lates to the Union of the Public union and 324 cell applied only in cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell-fired cell 64, 360HL of life provided further, there is no such amendment. It is actually effective relation to Jamu in Kashmir unless applied by order of the President under clause 1 of 370. So, Malaz, the point that I am making here is very simple that the government of the day accepted the fact that our relationships with the Jamu the Smi government are on a separate footing. The provisions of the Constitution unless made applicable for a presidential order and agreed to by the government shall not apply. The decisioning power will best in the state. It is the state which must pass laws, government to India, can't under be sure, repugnancy does not apply. So, when this state is accepted, that's how 370 came into being. And it continued. Yeah, so that would come to later. Can the distribution of revenues, no, that comes in that way, not really concerned with the moment. Now, kind of come back to two other of the written submissions volume due page 41. That is what I will be shown to you. Page 41. The constitution. So the assumption is that if the president passes a notification for the application of any law, the state of Jamo in Kashmir, he has to seek confidence. He cannot do it without confidence. Consultation. So it was a collaborative relationship in that sense. There was a constant dialogue going on. This is what we wish to do and we will consult the state, the state, the degrees, which is why most of the laws were made applicable. There was hardly any law that was left. So in a sense, they were incorporated separately in the constitution of India and in each application of the state of Jammu and Kashmir orders. What happened to currency for instance? Naran Singh, knowledge about the subreddit, Riyasat as your lordship, no small currency. Naran Singh, Naran currency for instance currency currency currency currency currency currency currency currency currency currency currency currency in the constitution is governed by entry 36 of list one. But there is no reference to entry 36 of list one in the adaptation order. When was it will come late on the adaptation order? Subchimate adaptation order. So, were the subjects brought by the subsequent administration order? Of course, they were brought in, but every stage they were brought in there is we have an order of 52, we have an order of 54, we have an order of 71, an order of 74. Because the powers were extended, and the state, after consultation it was done. The state was at item with the union of the state itself in its constitution says that we are integrated into India. There was no question. The constitution of Jammu Kashmir itself says that we are in integral part of India. So where is the question? The only thing that this is unique structural system in place, the Constitutional structure, which was in place, which suddenly, on the 6th of August, was done away. And melons with the greatest respect that are no to use that expression. Suddenly, melons in Parliament, it was said that we are doing this at 11 o'clock. Nobody knew about it. There was no consultation of any sort. So it was melons. As I said, the governor of the state and parliament, and of course the powers that be, they decided to do this one fine morning and tossed it out. So, Mother's paid 41. The government of India published its white paper on Indian states clarifying the nature of Article the Indian Union. And the Union Parliament will have jurisdictions to make laws for the state on matters specified either in the instrument of accession or by nature additions with the concurrence of the government of the state. My Lord, ask my good question. Steps will be taken for the purpose of convening a constituent assembly. Lordship knows, this is very important. At that time, when mothers became a republic, 370 was there. And 370 mentioned their constituent assembly. But the constituent assembly had not yet been conveyed in the state of Jammu Pismir. That was convened in 1951. December, point is that there was this understanding between the government of India and the state that we will have a constituent assembly which will determine the future course of action. Retirement whether or not voters in fact 37 should be aggregated at all or not that decision will be the constituent assembly. Which is why it is called a temporary provision not for any other reason. Since that chapter of the Constitution. So this whole argument that this temporary provision was 370 was temporary no. It was temporary because between 1951. Mr. Sebel, what is the date of this white paper? 50. You have not given the date. So, it is at page 121. Just see the date. We'll just give it to you in a minute. 20. We'll give it to you a lot, says my little gesture. So on the first of May 1951 now, you were as current, saying issued a proclamation, directly the establishment of an elected constituent, a sentiment, March 1950. It is March 1951. in the whole point. Whatever the update is, whether it is prior to 1951. In other words, the Constitution and Visits, a constituent assembly, which was to decide as to what would be the fate of Jermoying Gersenbj. 15th March 1950 is what I am told about. The steam perch. Anyway, let's not get into this. Why? Why is whatever much does it mean by the it's prior to the energy facility? When you can verify it and then we will be able to explain it. Yeah, give it to you. One five. five Thank you. you you you They didn't correspond to 1950 or the didn't correspond, but as if you look at the 50 order, it says para 2, but the purposes of subploss B1 and a clause 1 of 370. Meters specified in the first schedule to disorder being matters in the union they start thereby declared to correspond to matters specified in the instrument of access. This one we mentioned that, paradoxically itself. Sumerars, first of all, we all have done that. On the first of May 1951, currency, we should we should have proclamation directly established met a vaniletric constituent assembly to draft the constitution for the state of German Kashmir. Then 20th of March 1952, under Article 370, sub Article 1 of the constitution and following consultation with the government of Germanu and Kashmir, it's the same thing. It's 70 for a minute, but it'll give you a larger sum. Just continue. Where are you? Where are you? Number of that's 3, 3, 70 because the context will be apply in relation to the state of government and Kashmir. Not 238, but it's part 8, part 8 D states that's what 238 was. So it couldn't apply. It's neither in the government Kashmir and foreign work at the so-called. So it generates the power of parliament to make laws for the state shall be limited to those matters in the Union, and the current list, which in consultation with the government of the state are declared by the President to correspond to matters, specified in the instrument of accession, covering the accession of the state to the dominion of India, as the matters with respect to which the dominion legislature may make laws for that state. And such other matters in the set lists as with the current of the government of the state, the president may by order specify. So the items, mothers, communication, defense, foreign affairs, and consultation for all matters, concurrence for all other matters, concurrence. Explanation for the purposes of this article, the government of the state means the person for the time being recognized by the president as the Maraji of Dhamu in Kashmir being acting on the advice of the council of ministers for the time being enforced in office under the Maraji's proclamation dated 50, 50, 5th day of March 1948. This explanation was added later on, and I pointed out the logic later. It was amended later on, this particular explanation. The provisions of article one of these article shall apply in relation to that state. Such of the other provisions of this constitution shall apply in relation to the state subject to such exceptions and modifications as the president may buy order specified provided that no such order which relates to matters specified in the instrument of the state referred to in paragraph one of subplos B shall be issued except in consultation of the government of the state provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last proceeding, proviso shall be issued except with a concurrence of that government. In the if the concurrence of the government of the state referred to in paragraph 2 of sub-clos B of clause 1, or in second provider to sub-clos D of that clause be given before the constituent assembly, for the purposes of framing the constitution of the state's convene, it shall be placed before such a family for justice decision as maybe taken down. Not which standing anything in the foregoing provisions of this article. The president may by public notification declare that this article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptional modifications and from such data as he may specify provided that the recommendations of the legislative assembly of the state shall be necessary before the president issues and notifications. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. Constructed by the parliament. have a recommendation of the constituent is in. Before you could deface three seven. That's what the Constitution members themselves thought in 1950. And that operated six the bogus. How could it change? But how long would the tenure of the constituent is the state be? So here as well as 51 to 57. So therefore with the end of the seven years, the very institutional of the constituent assembly of the state lapses then there's no convent assembly left. So then what happens to the provides the point? Again what happens to the provides over there? This is exactly the point. This is exactly the point. This is the in between 51 and 57. The constituent, the seven, they could take that decision. But they're after there. There are no questions because they're formed. Well, let's take the constant. What happens after the constituent assembly has come to an end because no constituent assembly can have an indefinite life. That's precisely the point for this. That is my point. The constituent assembly in India when it drafted the constitution cannot have a life after the constitution is framed. No, but equally the proviso to close three refers to the recommendation of the constituent assembly of the state. The substantive provision says that the president may buy an notification declared that the article shall cease to be operated. Right? Now the only safeguard is that before the president does so, the recommendation of the constituent assembly of the state has to be taken. Now what happens at a point of time where the constituent assembly of the state ceases to exist? But that's the point, the president can't issue such a codification. According to your question, it can't be done at all. No after 57 and not then plus 3. That's why the temporary provision. No, but that's the first one. This one more fundamentally issue, which is that notwithstanding the fact that the proviso ceases to operate. Clause 3, the substantive part continues to hold the field. Oh, it is dependent on the proviso. No. With respect normal with respect any proviso, if the proviso, I mean there are ways in which you can construe a proviso. But if the proviso ceases to operate by virtue of the fact that the tenure of the constituent assembly of the state has ceased to exist, surely the substantive part of three still continues to remain. I mean, I mean, the scheme of 370, well, with the greatest risk, I mean, the scheme of 370, on the four items, that is defense, communications, external affairs andcillary matters, the consultation of the state is necessary under 370. For all of the matters, the concurrence of the state is necessary. So can you say you do away the concurrence and then the third thing is if you want to aggregate 370, then it's an order of many to have to get the recommendation of the constituent assembly. So a lot of you say to me, so long as it exists. This is the point, Manav. That's why I stayed initially. The constituent assembly, Manav has served its term when a constitution is framed. So in which case then what happened to the field if your construction is a diet? C70 which is essentially a transitional provision assumes the character of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of was left to the people of Kashmir. So according to you, after 27, the World Bicle 3 has become redundant. Because the situation is simply even in the context of the constitution of India's redundant. You can't revive the constitution of the assembly. There is no method according to you. There is consultation assembly or a case. Yeah, it's the same. It's the same. It's the assembly. At your condition is the provision, specifically applies and unless the provision is a provision, it cannot be dissolved if two of the 9.537 clause 3 will not be applicable. That's absolutely right. Thank you, God. Who are you? Just as close to three is worked itself out. Manakha, the point is why was this close put in 1950? Why? Because in 1950 they said we'll have a constituent assembly. See the constituent assembly debatual from my base will be made clear. You know, but the fact is in C70 that time the constituent assembly was not there, the whole purpose was. Yeah to accept your submission we will have to post, will it that clause 3 becomes a sort of a constitutional article which falls into dissuade after 7 years. Yes, yes, absolutely. Well, can that be? Well, that's main are may cease to operate. That's the part 21 bullet. See, 371 begins with a non-obstantic laws. It overites the entirety of the constitution. But who does laws? It really contains a non-obstantic laws which overites clause one is well. Yes. So therefore notwithstanding because 371 makes special provisions in relation to the state of Jammu and Kesharak, but 373 has a non-obstand day provision with overrides the non-obstand day clause in clause one. Well that period, well we are not disputing that. Well your logic is putting to me. There is a structure in place that was envisaged by the Constitution in Malah's 1950. At that time there was no constituent assembly. Why did they mention constituent assembly? Need not mention it. Finally, look at it from that point of view. What was the reason to mention constituent assembly? In 370, when it was not even in place, they could have said government of Jammu and Kashmir why did the Constitution make us, mothers include the term constituent assembly in three, because they knew that the constituent assembly will frame a Constellian. There was no limited the acceptance of sovereignty of the dominant of India was complete. They didn't say in the instrument of accession that we accept the sovereignty of the union of India for some limited purposes. They accepted the sovereignty for all intents and purposes. That acceptance of sovereignty was complete. But there reserved certain rights to themselves over certain legislative subjects. So in that sense, the accession was complete, the acceptance of sovereignty was complete. Now, consistent with that, therefore, it said that in close to that the Union of India would have the President of India would have the right to aggregate R-2-370. The, not the division that they have the right sovereign, forget the proviso, even the recommendation of the constituent assembly because it doesn't exist. Then 63, 68 to provide also goes, Marus. Well, therefore, the reason and the reason is simple, Marus. The genesis of it was the fact that in 1637 it was mentioned that the constituent assembly has a role to play in the abrogation of 370. Otherwise, if your logic says it had no role to play, there was no need for 370, so about 3. And let's look at the concurrence power. Even those powers, well, I'm no relevance thereafter because the Constitution of the Mohan Kashmir was in place. There was a no need for concurrence anymore. Because now you have the Constitution of the Ramohan Kashmir. So that also became Oshyv. You have to see, Murat, be historical perspective in the context of in Jammu and Kashmir ultimately signed the instrument of accession. Nobody disputes whether they are integrated into India but subjected to a constitutional provision. Therefore the submission is that once the periods stipulated in the Provisor to close, three had come to an end, the power and the close, close, three itself came to an end. Because they, they, they're no longer, it's no longer alive. The constituent assembly like in India, Malach can, for example, today, today, Malach, they can't be a provision in the Constitution of India with the rest of the family. The reference to a constituent assembly. Because the constituent assembly has worked, it's about. It has formed the Constitution. Now, if it is decided that they would, they would have, aggregate 370, the constituent assembly would have said we have 372, which is why it was a temporary provision, not because of the fact that under the union of India, it was, the dream, it was temporary. How could it have been, it was sorry sorry interrupting you at the stage? It does maybe just putting a question. No, it's not. We've run looks at Article 370. Clause 1 B. One B. Yes. The power of the parliament to make laws for the state shall be limited to. It says matter in the union list and the current list in consultation with the which in consultation with the government of the states are declared by the president. The correspond to matters specified in the instrumented section covering the excretion of the state to the dominion of India. To such other matters in the list as with the concurrence of the state, comment of the state the president may not be specified. In explanation deals with the what he is meant by the concurrence of the state. Then it says that provided that no such order, the first provider provided that no such order which relates to the matters specified in the insupentant excitation of the state, refer to in paragraph 1 of sub-ploss B shall be issued except in the consultation with the government of the state provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those specified in the last proceeding perverse proviso shall be issued except with the concurrence of the government. That's right. So the second proviso talks about concurrence of the government. Now if you unlooks at clause two, it deals with the situation where the assembly of the government of the state is not there. It deals with the period when the Constitution Assembly was of the state was in existence, but the government of the elected assembly was not in existence. And therefore, the Provisor to class 3, when only we applicable as long as the government of the state or the assembly is not elected. Because election of the assembly will take place after the constitution assembly of the state of Jammal Kashmir in above the constitution. You can state in the constitution that the 37 days abrogated what problem does it, does it, does it, does it, does it, does it, does it, And it says, Miller's notwithstanding anything in the forgoing provisions. Glyllin note that notwithstanding Miller's 371 B1 and 372 notwithstanding, Miller's 37, one B1 and 37, two notwithstanding any of that. So, Miller's the you start the article by saying notwithstanding anything in this constitution and three starts with notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions that in notwithstanding the opening part of the article also. There was a government. the system is, man. That is our case. Then how to stampary? It is temporary because when this article was framed, there was no constituent assembly. It was the constituent assembly, which could have taken the decision that we will abring it, 370 and merge completely with the union of India like any other state. This is a symbol of attention. If I understood you correctly, is that the temporary nature of 370 is correlatable to the life of the family each of the same life. That's the point. In a way, the applause three became the audience once the constant assembly sees the fixer. This is your contention. My contention. From 15 to 15, you have to remember. Your logic is the constituent assembly. They say the same thing. They say the am that they say the same thing. What I am saying, man? It's trying to play in a right understanding. I am clear that logic is a one understood it and I also understand your logic is what your logic is, something king, man. So I have to respond to it. According to it is temporary between 50 and 250, they have asked. And there are so permanent. The reason is simple, man has all constituent assemblies areplis are temporary. It is there no permanent in a constituent or the semplis. So when you roll it to prepping the constitution. Yes. Therefore, Malat, if it is temporary by its nature, which is why I started by saying, this is a political exercise. That's why I started with that summation before your lordships. The formation of a constituent assembly is a political exercise to ensure that we people within the territory of a particular region, their aspirations are taking into account to formulate a law and a constitution to ensure that those aspirations are met in future times to come. This is not a law-making exercise. Then they frame the constitution to take into account those aspirations. That's how our republic came into force. Because there was the 1935 at, there was diversity. Well, it's kindly look at it historically. Let's forget the law for the book. Look at it historically. If you look at Europe and the making of the nation states in Europe, how did that happen? It happened because there were large empires, the Austria, Hungary and Empire. Prussian Empire. And those large empires had communities and within those empires, there were peoples of different languages of different different cultures of different ethnic lot. So it is the breakup of the empire that led to the rise of the nation state, the Treaty of Utah said, the 1848 revolution. Right? In India the process was the opposite. It's the only exception. The purpose was just pre-opposed. There was disparity. There were existing disparities. There were 562 princely states. There was states, mothers of men, which are part of the British crowd. They had to be a man committed. And each of mothers had certain conditions, but then ultimately the all agreed okay for the states that were part of 562 all agreed, but this particular state of Jammu and Kashmir was an exception and the exception was constitutionally grafted in Article 370 and the terms of the exception but constitutionally grafted in 370. You can't jettison the people of the state of Jamo and Kashmir and decide that there is, there was the difference between this and whether it's the act of the crown. Was the difference between this and the annexation of June Agatha or the annexation of Hyderabad? Then it's an act of paramounts that I am the union and I will decide. When you have constitutionally, when it's committed yourself, that if this is to be done, you have to follow a process which tools sovereign authorities have agreed upon and then grafted in Article 370. Otherwise, then then it's exercise of paramount power. When the assimilative exercise carried out, your submission has understand the gain case and exception because a temporary provision was needed for a period of time and after that it is in grafted permanently into the past. Because you can't divide look as digital as same. That's what makes the matter. I appreciate Manu Diyal O'Chip's fully understood what I'm trying to say. What is it that we have? You have a state of jamoon Kashmir with today 14 million people at that time, other than the Umaslas. They have no, they have no goal to play in their own faith. They have no goal to play. If in 1950 it was part of the union, there would be no issue. The aspirations, the desires of the people, whatever it is, mother, after all this was something that also had international repercussions at that point in time. If a elected assembly would want to aggregate 370, even three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, three, seven, seven, three, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven yes, you know, not to be that. But if you have, but if that hypothesis is not accepted, then the only basis on which you can really, you know, place your petitions here is that by asserting that a pre-constitution compact, which was entered into between an independent state and a state in which it has merged, so to speak, is enforceable. It is expected of what the legislative power of the merging status. Because the legislative power, both of the parliament here, cannot override alerts the powers under 356 of the constitution. Because what has been used is 356. There is no such power by under 356 that can be the state of the state of the state. Of can an independent state which accepts the sovereignty of another state unconditionally still say that well if the parliament of that state to which we have assumed a sovereignty of is still restrained in terms of the original compact. and powers under the Constitution of India people is too abulmated. You are. It is reflected by an assembly-electronian. You are saying even that scenario, it cannot be done. Trying to understand the consequence. It would be even there, it cannot be done. Well, that we are political actmen, I would say that situation that I would be a political act. That's not'm saying we are in to printing class three. Yeah, yeah. So I'm just having to say we can't we can't bring you know I'm only saying we are is we don't issue it. And if I look at it carefully, you know, clause, sub-clos B, two, say such are the matters in the sad list with the concurrence of the government of the state, the president, man, way by a orders specified. So, all all other matters which are not included in clause 1, can be now this the parliament of the country can relate with the concurrence of the government of the state. Now what is meant by the concurrence of the government of the state is specified in clause 2. As long as there is no legislative assembly. In that case, it is the constitution assembly which will have the power. And after the state assembly has been constituted, then it will be placed before the state assembly. That's the purport of the laws too. So that's also worked itself out. But once the state assembly has been constituted in terms of the constitution of the state, then it is governed by the proviso first and the second proviso to close one. Which says provided that no such order which relates to matters specified, matters specified, so and so and so in consultation with the government of the state, concurrence is not required because it is all in the included in the order of excitation. The second provider applies when it is not included in the order of excitation and says provided further that no such order which relates to matters referred to in the last provision shall be except with the concurrence of the gamma. So all that is required is concurrence of the gamma. But to say that the provides so to close three will operate even after, logical chances to operate, not just any per loss, that this article chances to operate. There's a difference bullet. Actually, provider one and provider two have worked themselves out. Because now you have a constitution? Yes, it's not worked itself out. It will continue to apply as long as it is this concurrence of the state. That's right, and in between the constitution in 1937 is frame-police. So that there was no CO after that. Except for the one there were couple of COs but but ultimately it's in 3th it's in and that's a there's different. See. It says not not be standing anything will be following this article. We are interpreting 370. Let us look at it. Let us look at clause B, C and D for a moment. D, C and D cover two types of situations. That's one. It covers entries of the union list and the concurrent list. And it covers substantive provisions of the Constitution also. Now, clause B refers to the power of Parliament to make laws for the state. And it restricts it in two ways. First, those matters which are governed by the instrument of accession, those entries in the union list and in the concurrent list, which are referable to the instrument of accession in so far is it deserves powers to Parliament. Those have to be specified by the government of India by the president. In consultation with the state. So, B1 refers to those matters in the union list and the concurrent list. Right. B2 refers to such other matters in the state lists in which concurrence of the government of all the state is concerned. Right. So the entirety of B is confined is confined to matters in the union list and the concurrent list. Correct. Now we come to C. Yes. C refers to a substantive article of the Constitution article 1. Yes. Right. Now we come to close D. And 370, not a historical one. Right. And of this article. Right. And this one. And now close D. Close D refers to such of the other provisions of this constitution. They shall apply in relation to that state subject to such exception than modification is the president may by order specified. So close D, now is beyond the ambit of clause A. Close A refers only to the entries of the union list and the concurrent list, right? Clause D refers to the other provisions of the constitution, apart from the union in the tango line. This is the problem. Right. Now, now look at the proviso to clause D. Yes. The provide, provides you says that no such order, which relates to the matters specified in the instrument of accession of the state referred to in paragraph one of sub-clos B shall be issued except in consultation with the government of the state. In other words, the first proviso refers to the entries of the union list and the concurrent list. The second proviso further provided further that no such order, now which is such order, it refers to the order which is referred to in the first proviso. Therefore the use of the word such proviso order, which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso shall be issued except with the concurrence of that government. In other words, the whole area of concurrence, consultation and consent is confined to the entries of the union list and the concurrence list. Because that's very clear from the whole scheme. B1, matters in the union list and the concurrence list. B2 scheme B1 matters in the union list and the concurrent list B2 such other matters in the union and the concurrent list Then go to clause D, clause D refers to the provisions of the constitution of this constitution. Right now the presidential power the presidential power, the presidential power of parliament or such of the provision of this constitutional apply and relation to the state subject to such exceptions and modifications of the president may be how it is specified. In other words, the president is given an untramiled power to specify which are the provisions of the constitution which are applied to the state of Jammu and Kashmir. That is conditioned by the first provider and the second provider. But the first provider and the second provider don't relate to the substantive provision of the constitution at all. They only refer to the matters governed in the union list and the concurrent list. by the first and the second proviso. But the first and second proviso to clause D, only that no such auditions really. So no such audiments means the order referred to in the first proviso and the first proviso only refers to clause one of the orders I understand the idea some you know one second, no, you're not getting the point the point is this that the refers to an order which may be passed by the President making applicable provisions of the Constitution to the state of Jammun Kashmir with adaptations or modifications. Now the question including the list. Now yes, now what the first provisos says is that no such order which relates to matters specified in the instrumental accession specified in paragraph one of clause B shall be issued except to the council date. But that pertains only to the entries in the union list and the concurrent list. Yes, absolutely. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, you say, yes, that's a second provisional. Now the second provisional. Now the second provisional says, provided. Other than that, there is no such order, which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding proviso. Therefore, which includes D-minut, no, it refers only, it cannot. I'll tell you why. Provided further, that no such. No such order means which order the order referred to in the first proviso and the order. Sorry. You also mentioned order. Proviso. You by God such order. That's to the order indeed. That's just fun. That's just fun. He also says the same thing. I'm sorry. Yeah, they beat Good. So the honourable with Chief Justice Mazarai in the morning I mentioned a matter this in our agency that 23 protest going on simultaneously we have a very volatile situation due to very unfortunate situations that happened in the neighboring state in Haryana and. Now that 23 protests going on in daily circulatory or I will circulate your image. I will send it not to the password as immediately. If your logic could please and that's what the question is. That's what the question is. I'll do that. Can I hand over hard copies of the IM not circulated an email right? I'll pass what is it? But email went to the learned registered judicial because we couldn't find another email. It doesn't even allow me to use a washroom, he's waiting just outside today God, there's a moment I come to my chamber. Nice. Well, we also circulated to the onable court of it. You all know chips court master. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you Yes. Well, there's may I just, but I just, very simply state what is what I think is the architecture of three-searchance. Yes. Let's go back to it, Mothers. Notwithstanding anything in this constitution, the provisions of Article 238 shall not reply in relation to Jamu in Kashmir. That's done away with normalists because those are part A, Part B, Part C, Part B, Six. Therefore, Mothers, that. Therefore, we will not part of any of those states. The power of parliament, the B are mothers, it relates to the power of parliament to make laws just kind of note that. That's the ordinary law making power. The ordinary law making power for the state shall be limited. Now that's important. Even the lawmaking power is limited. To those matters in the union list and the concurrent list. Your lotchits will see stateless without because the rest of the state. Which in consultation with the government of the state are declared by the president to correspond to matters specified in the instrument of accession, governing the accession of the state to the dominion of India as the matters with respect to which the dominion legislature may make laws in that state. So that's that list monos, we saw the list in the morning, the list in the morning. So which is only quay those that parliament may make laws, but that also with concentration. And consultation is mentioned here itself. Doesn't have to be repeated in the provide, though it's mentioned here itself. Correct, Manus? That also has to be repeated in the provider, it's mentioned here itself. Corrections. That also has to be consultation. I'm just putting the bullets clarify the architecture. So that's with consultation. Now you come to be such a matter that is again, repower parliament to make laws Such other matters in the set list so Apart from the list letter in the instrument of Excession Such other matters in the set list list list refers to union and concurrent list yes Only list one and three one entry as with the concurrence of the government So now know that law has to be also with concurrence of the government. So we are dealing only with laws here. Law making power. That's the first minute's limb of the argument. That's the restriction on the law making power. That's the law making power. concurrence is mentioned here, in respect to other matters, no proviso is required. No, no proviso is required. Now, let's leave the explanation for the movement. The provisions of article 1 and this article shall apply, see, the provisions of article 1 and of this article shall apply in relation to that state. So, one of this is article one and this article three seventy. This becomes relevant for D mathematically. Now come to D. D starts with the word. Now D doesn't deal with laws. It takes, D is with proclamation and orders of the president. Provision is such of the other provisions of this month. I pause the other. Others excluding one and three seventy. Once I've got one hold on, let my door three with. So D is such, C says the provisions of article 1 and of this article shall apply in relation to that state and D says such of the other provisions that is excluding 1 and 370 shall apply in relation to that state subject to such exceptions and modifications as the president may be So just one little thing. See, only in relation to the other provisions correct means 1 and 370 as a permanent article. We will come to that later when we want it. Yes, that's your argument. Well, it's a permanent article which cannot be undone by even with the concurrence. Let me forget that. But I mean that argument. Right now you're just giving us the structure of the article. Get that what I've raised that argument. That you give me the same structure. It is temporary on 26th of January 19th. Let's forget about anything else. It is temporary. Why? Because, Mother's. The constituent is simply to a chill choose to. So it's temporary. There's nothing wrong with that heading. Let me finish the architecture and then I'll come back. So, when was I was reading, the such of the other provisions of the Constitution. So, that is other than 1 and 370, Shal and 238, Shal apply in relation to that state, subject to such exceptions and modifications as the president may or by order specified. Now you come to orders not to laws. Provided that no such order or order or under D. Column, see the colon model, specify colon. Provided that no such order which relates to the matter specified in the instrument of accession again, of the state referred to in paragraph one of subplos B, shall be issued except in consultation with the government of that state again a column provided further that no such order which relates to matters other than those referred to in the last preceding provider shall be issued except to the concurrence you go to be one and be two so that was the law the same template now the orders for the rest of the provisions then retomolates if the concurrence of the government of the state refer to in paragraph 2 of sub-closed B of clause 1 or in second provides out to sub-closed D of that clause be given before the constituent assembly for the purpose of framing the constitution of the state is convened. It shall be placed before such assembly for such decision at maybe taking their own. Same template of B and D balance and they can reject it. They need not confirm it. That's how you retain sovereignty, which is the instrument of expression. And if it's don't retain it, it's temporary. That's why temporary. Well, I'm just trying to explain whether it's structure of 370. You complete clause 3. Then I have one question. No, but we first, you can complete, as well, be your link which on some unrelated area also. Not which standing anything in the four going provisions. So, whether it is not which standing the not which standing is the beginning of the article. Please, please note that. Not which standing anything in the four going provisions of this article. So, not which standing the notwithstanding in 370. The president may by public notification declare that the article shall cease to be operative or shall be operative only with such exceptions and modifications and from such date as he may specify to provide it that the recommendation of the constituent assembly shall be necessary before the president issue such a notification. So if the constituent assembly recommended namely that we want to abrogate 370, then on that recommendation the president will issue a notification. And this article is contained in subploss 3. Doesn't have to be in the. So that according to me, the architectural of 37. I'm a civil I just one question on this. D1 refers to those matters in the instrument of accession which have been seated by the Maraga to the union the Dominion's power. D2 refers to all other matters in the union in concurrent list other than what is covered by what we are now. Now suppose, when the area of the union under concurrent list, something is not covered by B1 or by B2. In other words, it's not advisable to those subjects mentioned in the instrument of taxation and it's not covered by B2 at all. That power is not interested to the state. You have to take the concurrence of the state. Now suppose it is not covered by B2 in the sense that there is no concurrence of the state. Right? It's not covered by B1 and you have not taken the concurrence of the state under B2. Correct. On such an aspect, the state legislature cannot exercise power because it's not in the state list. State like one second. One second. This is a one second. This is a one second. This is a one second. This is a one second. This state legislature. The state legislature is operating on the state list. And the way around, you know, the speed it was the from the beginning. The instrument of the station. Yes, it is part of mothers all all orders of the government know but has specifically there's it's also part of the constitution I just wanted to see whether it's yes, yes, yes, yes, you're going to take it. Mother's I otherwise there'll be a peculiar situation where neither parliament can exercise bars I will not can the state like I said you can not you point I will demonstrate a lot you the digitally power was with the state like this. I say, if I will not you, it's point. I will demonstrate a law chiefs. The rigidity power was with the state legislature throughout and with the state government throughout that was the condition on which militant the accession took place. And I will demonstrate that to your logic. That's what that's the simple. That's the rest of my problems. It's a simple slightly different. Yes. Which is very different from what is subject matter of one and two. Yes, right. Because they do not deal with evlogation of the Arctic abscessing. Yes, absolutely. We don't see this right. And therefore, when we read at that power, which is specifically conferred on the President, 10, provides a leave aside for the timing, the provider. Do you agree with that interpretation? No, I agree. For the time being, just leave the provider. I can't read the Constitution in in this fashion I Can't even act in that fashion. Let's forget the constitution How do will be only if the condition of the provider is satisfied that three clause three will apply otherwise if the condition of the five clause three will not apply. And now your lot ships have interpreted, provides us is 1950 minutes. That's all that I can say. I can't say more than that. A proviso may in some cases be an exception. It provides so many cases be an elaboration. There's an ignorance below. Depends upon the nature of the people. The providers are sometimes saying. That's a lot of advice. Why do a lot of supervisor? That the recommend one. That's true for a supervisor. That's a provided. Provided that the recommendation of the legislative of the constituent assembly shall be necessary. It is a restriction of the exercise of power. That is it, refer to in clause two-malers. Equate to interpret clause three to say that the power existed and then will vanish once the constitution resamely of the state referred to in para 2 sub clause B of 1 of the second provider to D of that clause B given before the constituent assembly for the purpose of framing of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of to in clause 2. Why are they saying that, Mother's? The purpose is given in clause 2. Provided that the recommendations, the constituents, simply of the state refer to in clause to shall be necessary for the president before the president before the president issues such an notification. It is necessary in actual and before he issues it. How can you say it's explanatory or that it's an independent clause? It specifies how it is to happen. It has to happen before that is the permission has to be before. You know the reason why it refers to the constitutive and assembly of the state referred to in clause 2 is because clause 2 refers to the constitutive and assembly for the purpose of framing the constitutive. Correct. That's exactly what I thought. That's your point. You get a point. Now, therefore, the reference, the recommendation of which constituent assembly, this makes it very clear that one and only constituent assembly which was formed for the purpose of framing of the state constitution. Once the frame of the constitution was done, then that purpose of the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution no application. That's the problem, this is the problem, the problem there is, then you are applying a flying three without the proviso and saying this is a blanket part, then it's a, then the president can do it anytime without any concentration concentration. It's a one just which we must pass in the order. I integrate I integrate one I that's that one. We have to also bear in mind is all these provisions are in part 21 part 21 has used three expressions temporary transitional and special. The temporary provisions are those which are intended to be in existence for a limited period of time but without a point of terminus a temporary government servant that person is temporary limited period of time but who services are to be terminated until you are terminating the services of that person that person still continues that's that broad concept enough temporary Absolutely not transitional means something which necessarily has a terminus That's why there was a earlier I feel some of the transitional provision this part and third is special right now We'll see for instance after three seventy will get some idea from the provisions after 370 say 371 special provision with respect to Maharashtra and Gujgaat. 371 a special provision for Nagal and yes yes then we get 371 b special provision for Assam. Correct. 371 c special provision for Manipu. That's correct. d for the state of Andhraadish and Telangana, established from the Central University in AP, F is special provision for S state of Karnatak. Now after these special provisions then, we come to 372 which continues continents in force of existing laws, which then says shall continue in force until alter or repeal or amended by compete in legislature or by any other like the penal court. It just continued in force until it is altered. Then similarly now we have 372A power the president to adapt clause. And it says the president may by order made before the first of November 1957 make such adaptations and modifications. So this was eight transitional provision that the president had to make those adaptations by the first of November 1957. So it was a transitional provision after that the power lapses. So similarly, 33, you know, was then came the provisions relating to the judges, judges who are who services had to be taken over by the UN and a Pindya public service commissions, so on and so forth. And then in the 390 to the power of the president to remove difficulties. So therefore part 21 basically covers special provisions, temporary provisions and transitional provisions. Right. Now it doesn't use the expression transitional in any headnote, a marginal note to the articles, but temporary and special are used in the marginal notes to specific articles of part 21 and 370 specifically uses the expression temporary. It can be then by reading by saying that the power under clause goes once the constituent assembly comes to an end. Really convert this into a permanent provision which it was never intended to be by the power. That's one of your lawsuits are not putting to me. It was never intended for within three, seventy when it was put in it had to be a temporary provision. It had to be murder. There was nothing there at that point in time. It had to be murder. It could never be a permanent thing. So why did the constitution then put it in part 21? Because murder, it's a separated, it relates to a particular state where there are the two sovereigns that have come together and made a compact which is incorporated and it gained part 21. Part, does not deal only with the, does not deal only with the market, it deals with the other stuff. I am sorry, I did not deal. Part 21, yes, does not deal only with the market. No, of course not, that is what I think is a separate independent provision and has to be incorporated on its own terms. You can't incorporate knowledge concepts outside of 370 and integrate them into 370 and say, this is how we'll reach 370. 370 is not temporary. 370 is not temporary. There's a lot of expressly sales temporary. No, it's just temporary provisions with respect to, it's very provisions. In other words, this is a provision which is temporary, did such time that the constituent assembly decides this way or that way. That's the whole purpose, Mother's. Because when the constitution came into force, there was no such thing as the constituent assembly, even. How did the constitution add this here? Because there was an understanding. Otherwise why will you bring in the term constituent assembly in 370? Does not anywhere else? To the assembly, supposing whether that not that I should say so, will it one never knows Supposing that the constituent assembly decided not to be within the other. What happens? You would have to do what we did to Junaga. You know there are two types of temporary provisions in part 21. One type is Article 365. 365 is Parliament had the power to make laws in for a field of five year. That's correct. On certain matters, they may not be in the concurrent. Absolutely. Yes. So they were temporary with reference to time. They were temporal. Then 370 is an illustration of a case which is temporary in the sense it will operate if operate till abbreviated. Would it be I mean we just when Mr. not really abbreviated when we are putting your point it's actually we are thinking that we are we are just I understand this is your lot ships have always done this mother the allotch is this is a this is a very fruitful debate because we all have to understand well we are yes, but only only what that is that question and we are not, but this is not something that we believe we are totally integrated into India. That's not an issue. We are, we have said so. Therefore, there is no, as far as, I mean, our constitution says, we are an integral part of India. So where's the question of moving away from that? They were only two choices, but we said the constituency assembly was said all of constitutional the apply we like we would be like any other state. Then they don't have to make a constitution of their own. They don't have to make a constitution of their own. They don't have to make a constitution of their own. The constitution of the assembly would say we integrate into India, we're part of India, we like any other state, we don't need a constitution and all those lists will apply. That power was there. So why was it called a temporary provision? Because that had to be decided by the constituent assembly. And then you interpret the terms to find out how that power is to be exercised. Because it was unlike any other state, the Residuary power was always with the state. In the Delhi agreement in 1952, I have reached this 70 came in with the original constitution. Yes. But is there anything in the constitution assembly debates which first lights on now, why they introduce that? I will do that straight away, yes. I will give you a logic that. Exactly what I am saying is what they said. Let us see the gucillary. Only the age man, only the maiden. Just we are no each. . 1,1,1,7,3. So, 1,1,7,4, action. Volume made, PDF page 1,1,7,4. 1,1,7,4. We know your lotchips illicit answers in order to find out what we wish to say. Not that your lotchips in this it answers in order to find out what we wish to say not that your lotchips have ever decided on one way or the other. The old way is to do that and I've seen the last word is said in a matter of say, say, well, everything is open. When the printed word comes, that's the last word. It's a very, very difficult, a very quiet, there is a problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a real problem. It's a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a simple budget. It was a frankly, I mean, honest, when I looked at it myself, I asked this question that your logic is asking you. I asked myself my staff that question. 403 forms. Yes, 403. 1174. Yes. 117 one month every month. Then kindly come to mothers with sentient starting Sir this matter you're not your father They set out mothers Goa Pazhomi anger yes, I am. Yes. Then it says, Sir, this matter, this matter, the matter of this particular motion relates to Jammu in Kashmir. The house is fully aware of the fact that the state has exceeded to the dominion of India. The history of this accession is also well known. The accession took place on 26th of 2019-47. Since then the state had a checkered history. Conditions are yet not normal. The meaning of this accession is that the present that at present the state is a unit of a federal state namely the dominion of India. This Dominion is getting transformed into a republic which will be inaugurated on 26 January 1950. The Jammu and Kashmir state therefore has to become a unit of the new Department of the Indian. As the house is aware, accession to the Dominion always took place by means of an instrument which had to be signed by the ruler of the state and which had to be accepted by the governor general of India. That has taken place in this case. As the house is also where instruments of accession are the thing of the past and the new constitution will be a thing of the past and the new constitution. The states have been integrated with the federal republic. In such manner, they do not have to exceed or execute a document of accession to the purpose of becoming units of the republic. But they are mentioned in the constitution itself. And in the case of practically all states other than the state of Jamo and Presme, their constitutions also have been embodied in the Constitution for the whole of India. And all those other states have agreed to integrate themselves in that way and accept the Constitution provided. The discrimination is due to the special why this discrimination, that's the question asked. The discrimination is due to the special conditions of Kashmir. That particular state is not yet right for this kind of integration. It is the hope of everybody here that in due course even Jammu and Kashmir will become right for the same sort of integration as has taken place in the case of other states. At present it is not possible to achieve that integration. There are various reasons why this is not possible. Now, I shall refer again to the cellist later. In the case of other Indian states or Union of states, there are two or three points which have got to be remembered. They all accepted the Constitution framed for states in part one of the new Constitution. And those provisions have been adapted so as to suit conditions of Indian states and Union of states. Secondly, the center that is the Republican Federal Center will have power to make laws of applying in every such state or Union to all unions and concordance subjects. Thirdly, a uniformity of relationship has been established between those states and unions and the center. Kashmir's conditions are, as I have said, special and require special treatment. I do not want to take much time of the house, but I should briefly indicate the special conditions are. In the first place, there has been a war going on within the limits of Jammal Kusmeet. There was a ceasefire agreed to at the beginning of this year, and that ceasefire is still on, but the conditions in the state are still unusual and abnormal. They have not settled down, and therefore necessary that the administration of the state should be geared to these unusual conditions until normal life is restored. Part of the state is still in the hands of rebels. We are in tangled with the United States and regard to Jammu and Kashmir. And it is not possible to say now when we shall be free from this entanglement, that can take place only when Kashmir problem is satisfactory. or wish to go out of it. We are also committed to ascertaining the will of the people by means of a plebiscite, provided that peaceful and normal conditions are restored and the impartiality of the plebiscite. This is not relevant anymore. Next, this is not relevant. We have also decided that the will of the people through the instrument of a constituent assembly will determine the constitution of the state as well as the sphere of union jurisdiction will be state. That's why it was a temporary proposal. Now the next paragraph. At present the legislature which was known as the Prabhav's projects over in the state is dead. Neither the legislature nor a constituent assembly can be convoked. Or can function until complete peace comes to prevail in the state. We therefore to deal with the government of the state which has represented by its in its council or ministers reflects the opinion of the largest political party in the state. Till a constituent assembly comes into being. Only an internal arrangement is possible. Which is why it is temporary and not an arrangement which could at once be brought into line with the arrangement that exists in the case of others today. This tensure logic is why it is temporary. Now if you remember the viewpoints that are mentioned, it is inevitable conclusion that at the present moment we could establish only an internal system, internal system, article 306A as now what is 306A? 372. Is there an attempt to establish the other system? Internal until the constituent assembly decides. I shall now proceed whether that's not relevant. So clearly, clearly, it gives you an indication why it was internal, it gives you an indication why it was temporary. Because there was nothing in place. Legislature was not working because the teachers in the family were not in place and the will of the people had to be taken. Which was reflected in the constituent of seven. Therefore, it was temporary. And therefore, 370, but now remember this, when 370 is enacted in 1950, at that point in time, nothing is in place. And yet in 370, 3 they say, you will have to get the recommendation of the constituents of the assembly. That is, de-. Yes, yes. Now it's very interesting with it. Now let's read the paragraph, then we come to close to first that and then I read the other paragraph. Then we come to close to my notes have that, that pdf 117 average. The number is actually, maybe the number is I should start. Volume 8, 1, 1, 7, 6, let's take 1, 1, 7, 6. PDF, 1, 1, 7, 6. Running page 40, 3, 7. Yeah, I agree. Because it's the interpretation, they asked to be called an inch. Most of your lotchips questions will hopefully are answered in this. There is the second portion of this article, can 1076 murders. Yes. I shall now proceed to the provisions of the Sartica. That's 306A which is 37. As honorable members, remember the Constitution of Indian states is mainly governed by Article 211A of this Constitution which applies to the Constitution to Indian states. Subject to the modifications contained in part 6A. The schedule. So for that provision is concerned, I've already indicated the provisions regarding the states subject to the modifications contained in part six say the schedule so for that provision is concerned I've already indicated to you that the provisions regarding the constitution of other states could not at present be applied to Jamaw in Kashmir therefore clause one of A of this article says that the provisions of 211 A of his constitution so not applied to the state of Jamaw in Kashmir that's 238 models 211 A is 238 A the second portion of this article relates to the state of Jammu Gishmiddhan. That's 238 minutes. 211 is 238. The second portion of this article relates to the legislative authority of parliament. So parliament may by law. That's beating. Over the state of Jammu Gishmiddhan. This is governed primarily by the instrument of exception. Broadly speaking, that legislative power is confined to the three subjects of difference for under fair and communications. But there's a matter of fact these broad categories include a number of items which are listed in the instrument of exception. I believe they include I believe they number some 22 25. Now these items have undergone a change in description in numbering in arrangement as a maximum self-inlist one in list three of the new constitution. It is therefore necessary that the items mentioned in the instrument of accession should be brought in line with the change designation of entries in the list one and three of the new constitution. So clause one B of 306 A says that this listing of items as per the terms of the new Constitution should be done by the President in consultation with the government of the instrument of accession. And these additions could be made according to the provisions of this article with the concurrence of the government of the state. The idea is that even before the constituent assembly meets, it may be necessary in the interest of both the center and the state that certain items which are not included in the instrument of accession would be appropriately added to the list in that instrument so that administration, legislation and executive action might be furthered and as this may happen before the constituent of the 70 needs, the only authority from whom we can get consent for the addition in the government of the state that is provided. Then there is the explanation which defines what the government of the state means, the government of the state is defined both in the constitution which is now supposed to be in the force in Jammu and Kashmir. The state as well as the proclamation with the Maraada issued on 5th March 1914, the terms of which are as follows. Then kindly come to, now kindly come to C&D. Yes, second last paragraph in 1177, PDF 1177, 103, 108, but what has that? Close C and D, refer to the provisions of the constitution, other than matters listed in 13. These various provisions have been divided into certain categories. The first according to this draft is that article one of the Constitution will automatically apply. As you know, it describes the territory of India and include the one of those territories, all the states mentioned in Part 3 and Jammu in Kashmir is one of the states mentioned in Part 3. With regard to the other provisions in the Constitution, these will apply to the Jammu in Kashmir state with such exceptions and modifications as maybe decided on when the prison issues in order to that effect. That order can be issued with regard to subjects mentioned in the instruments of excitation only after consultation with the government of state. With regard to other matters, the counter-instance of the government has to be taken. That's B1 and B2, two provisions, B1 and B2. That order can be issued and regard to subject mentioned the instrument only after consultation and we got to the other the conducts. Now, it is not the case nor is it the conventional, the member of Kashmir government, whom I took opportunity of consulting, so this draft was finalized. It is not there case. No. Now, it is not the case, nor did it the intentional remember that the Kashfis government whom I took the opportunity of consulting, we were this drug was finalized. It is not their intention that the other provisions, the constitutions are not to apply. That particular point of view is that these provisions would apply only in cases where they can suitably apply and only subject to such modifications of the exceptions and the particular conditions of Jermann Kashmir may require. I wish to say that no more about that particular point at the present moment. Then we come to close to. You will remember that several of these clauses provide for concurrence of the government of Jermann Kashmir State. Now these related particularly to matters not mentioned in the instrument of Exession. And it is one of our commitments to the people and government of Kashmir that no such additions should be made except with the consent of the constituent assembly which may be called in the state for the purpose of framing its constitution. In other words, what we are committed to is that these additions are matters for determination by the constituent assembly of the state. This is commitment. Now you will recall, then in some of the clauses of this article, we are providing for concurrence of the government of the state, the government of the state feel that in view of the commitments already entered between the state and the center, they cannot be regarded as final authorities for the giving of this concurrence. So they are prepared to give it in the interim periods. But if they do not give this concurrence, if they do give this concurrence, the clause provides that that concurrence should be placed before the constituent assembly when it meets under constituent assembly will take whatever decision it likes to take. What is what can be clear of them this? The last clause refers to what may happen later on, which is why it's temporary. So the paragraph which you read is with reference to clause 2 not with reference to clause 2. Yes, yes, I'm not saying that I'm just reading. Last clause is clause 3. I am not saying I'm not saying I'm reading it holistically. So you know why it is for temporary. Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do you want to read it? Do one-three attempt to do and three attempt to you know doubt about it because they have to be actually agreed upon by the legislature by the constituent or something. Now see three. The last clause refers to what may happen later on. We have said article 211A which is 238A will not apply to the demo in Kashmir. But that cannot be a permanent feature of the Constitution of the state. And hope it will not be. So the provision is made that when the Constitution and the assembly of the state has met and taken its decision, both on the Constitution for that state and on the range of federal jurisdiction over the state. The president, me, on the recommendation of the constituent assembly, is sure in order that this article 306A, shall still be operated or shall be operated only subject to such exceptions and modifications as may specify. But before issues in order of that kind, the recommendation of the subject to such exceptions and modifications as misplaced, respecified point. But before issues and in order of that kind, the recommendation of the constituent assembly will be a condition precedent that explains the whole of the article. What is how can there can be nothing clearer than this? I mean, we in hindsight sitting in 2023, got into operator provision, except on its terms, were here to interpret the constitution, were not here to legitimize a process which is inconsistent with the express down to the constitution. Next, Paraguling. The effect of this article is that the Jamo and Kashmir state which is now a part of India will continue to be a part of India We'll be a unit of the future federal Republic of India. And the Union Legislature will get Jewish Diction to enact laws on matters specified either in the instrument of accession or by later addition with the concurrence of the government of the state. And steps have to be taken for the purpose of convening a constituent assembly. In due course, which will go into the matters, I have already referred to. When it comes to a decision on the different matters, it will make a recommendation to the President who will either abrogate 306 a or direct that it shall apply with such modification and the exception of the constituent assembly may recommend. That's description of the effect of this article and I hope the House will carry it. This explains several things. One, why it was a temporary provision? Two, constituent assembly had not been constituted then. It was envisaged in our constitution that it will be constituted and the ultimate authority of abrogating 370 will be left to the constituent assembly. And a precondition of that would be a recommendation of the constituent assembly for the president to pass a note. Action that it can't be done. That was the understanding of the lawmakers of the Constitution, because of the constituent assembly. That is why it was put in. It was not a temporary provision in the sense that it had ultimately three seventy had to be aggregated. That's not the meaning of the temporary provision that we're talking about. In any case, Muldan's a heading of an article can determine the content of the article. Content of the article is clear. So, Murat's the government of the day was staring at the provisions of article 370 and according to me through a political act not a constitutional procedure declared that 370 is gone that's why I said it was tossed out of the window through through a political act. Not through a constitutional act. Such a political act cannot be determined by the Parliament of India. It's not in the remit of the Parliament of India to take a political decision to aggregate 307. Now we demonstrate as we move along with us, how it was done and in what matter it was done? Nobody can deny that the people of Jamo and Kashmir are with the union. It's an integral part. Nobody can deny that. But there is a special relationship. There is a unique relationship which is in grafted in 370 itself. You can't j this on that except by following a process which is ordained by law. Some others your logic is asking me on the constituent I wanted to just mention. These are the, this is the libary. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. 1.5 cm You you 3.5mm So, I'm going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a And I other just... What's your hobby? Still here on the board. Please don't be stupid. you you you you you you you you you you you you Hello. And then I just want to mention that all the amendments sought mothers were all rejected and withdrawn. Not move. We still have to like, you need to not move those. Yes. So, my I go back to the list of days now now that I have my list put my permission on article 370 straight away. Let's go back to the list of days for the British. But as kindly come to my written submissions volume 2 and the PDF page is 41. You can pay the same page. You are on the list of dates at the serial where you left. Yes. There's a thought unless we have a clear picture of 370, it will be difficult to. I come 33 at page PDF 41. My notes have that. Just it. So we can't say. Under 370 sabbatical one of the constitution and following consultation with the government of Jammu and Kishmid, the president issued the constitution application of Jammu Kashmir's amendment order 39, modifying Article 5455 of the constitution as long as they applied to state of Jammu Kashmir. Now is the Allah, it will notice each of these orders where he should under B1, D1, all of these orders. B1, D1, D1, all of these orders. Then in 1952 on the 10th of June, on June 1052, the basic principles of committee of Jammu and Kashmir constituent assembly, summit it, it's interim report. The Jammu and Krisid Kashmir constituent assembly and recommended the form of the future constitution of Jammu and Kashmir shall be only democratic. The institution of Karritri Rula ships shall be terminated. The institution of the territory rulerships have been terminated. The Office of the Head of State shall be elective. Then, one of the next is very important. 1952, the Delhi government, Delhi Agreement of 1952, was entered into between the government of India and the government of Jamu and Kashmir. Under this agreement, the government of India agreed that while residual powers of the legislature vested in parliament in respect of other states, in the case of Jamu and Kashmir, such powers vested in the state itself. This is what by law passed me the question. Number of this document is very important. Volume one of the compilation of documents pages 13, BDR, 13, 1 second. What she has there? The Delhi Agreement 1952. This is Malat. Peace. Peace 13. A PDF 13. This does not seem as far as the main agreement. This seems to be some summary of the features of the agreement. Yes. It's a summary of what are parts of what happened, what the features are. Where is it? Sumari taken from because your authenticity will depend on that. The very next page is there, Madhava, I believe. This is Sheikh Mohammad of Bluehaz statement to the constituent assembly on the daily agreement on 11 August 1952. That's at PDF 16. That's the actual extract. Yes. I can read that. I can read that. Let's not be original either. I'll get you the original. They'll have it in any case. What? Yes. That's the extract from the original. I'm sure. What is that being? 13 is an extract of the original. Some are the summary actually. So this is not something that would be, what do you think the government will take seriously? Says that in view of the uniform and consistent stand taken by the Jaman Kashmir constitution assembly, the sovereignty in all matters other than those specified in the instrument of accession continues to reside in the state. Government of India agreed that while the residual part of the legislature vested in the central and respective all states other than Jammu and Kashmir in the case of the latter-devested of the states. It was agreed between the two governments that in accordance with Article 5 of the Indian Constitution, for instance we have their domicile, we are not concerned with the domicile issue. And I could read it. There's the two governments that in accordance with Article 5 persons with their domicile in Jammu and Kismishal, we regarded as citizens of the nation. It's a bit simple. It may not be directly relevant. That's why. That's why I said, Mother. Then, whether it's four is the union government agreed with the state should have its own flag in addition to the union flag. But it is agreed that the state government, the state flag would not be reliable to the union. of basic principles agreed between the parties were unanswered, it was accepted that the people of the states were to have their fundamental rights, but in view of the peculiar positions in which the state was placed, the whole chapter relating to fundamental rights of the Indian Constitution could not be made applicable to the state. The question which remained to be determined was whether the chapter on fundamental rights should form a part of the state. State government argues that in the exercise of its power over defense, I to one of the unionists in the event of war at external aggression, the government would have full authority to take steps and proclaim a emergency. But the state delegation was, however, emerged to President exercising the part of proclaim a general emergency on account of internal disturbance which ultimately a lot should know was also taken out of the Indian Constitution. And that's 350 to. If the relevant time it was there, it was there at the relevant time. But the state said, we will not allow it to be exercised. This, you think allowed every relevant time in 75. Yeah, it was there. It was there. It was very much there. This, who some subsequent orders, it equally applied to the Mukeshmeer and that's it. Absolutely. So, somebody which my friend was reading the book, wrote is suffering. This has seems to have been taken out of this book, Lord of just a. Is not public is a legal justice. Anand has that. It's published. We, we, it's not publicly available. He has given the authority to state it is. What is it? What does it imply? This is also part of the compilation of the state's characteristics. Yes, yes. Then, whether it is in order to meet the viewpoint of the state delegation government, when you are ready to the modification of 350 to any application to guess me, where the additional following works, but in regard to internal disturbance of the request or with the concurrence of the government of the state. That's our moment. So the parties agreed that the application of 356 dealing with suspension of the state constitution and 360 dealing with financial emergency was not necessary. Right. Then let's check up the last statement to the constituent assembly on 11th August. I create permission to make a statement before the House and regard to the Constitutional Relationship with Jamu Keshmeet and the Indian Union. As the honorable members are aware during the last session of the Constitution to assembly the basic principles committee. At submitted report making certain specific recommendations about the future of the state, how swine accepting these recommendations at chart the drafting committee to present for the consideration of the assembly, a draft resolution, incorporating the proposed principles for the election of the head of state, drafting committee will no doubt submit its report to the House. Since the changes proposed in the Assembly involved corresponding adjustments in the Indian constitution, government of India decided that it should have time to discuss with other representatives, other matters pertaining to the constitutional relationship of state, with the union during the last stage of these discussions that became necessary for me. In some of my other colleagues in the government to participate in the talks, I'm now in a position to inform the House that certain broad principles have been laid down and certain decisions have been tentatively arrived at between the two governments. The basis of our relationship with India as the instrument of accession which enabled the state to enter into a union within India, in accordance with the terms instrument of the instrument certain parts, which transferred to the center, the principle matters specified to the purpose and respect which the dominion register could make laws for the state word. They arrange this arrangement involved a division of sovereignty which is the normal feature of a federation beyond the past transfer to it by to the union the state enjoyed complete the residual is so over which that's why models when you lead 370 you can't read into it models other matters. The these terms of the association of our state with the dominion were maintained and subsequently when the constituent assembly of India was charged with the task of framing a constitution this overriding consideration of the skeptic view in determining the position of the state in the proposed constitution. Earlier to this, it had been agreed, which means the two governments that in view of the special problems that are writing in respect of the state and the fact of the government of India have assured it's people, they would themselves finally determine the political future. A special position should be accorded to government in future of constitution. So the limited field of the union powers over the state is in shock. Our representatives are dominated by the Jammu and Kashmir state of the constituent assembly of India. These representatives participated in the deliberations of the assembly in India at the time of the bulk of the Indian constitution and already been adopted. It was the state that the position of this state was determined in the Constitution of India is very important. It was in collaborative exercise, a dialogue. It was not mutants behind the back of the Union of India or anything like that. Then you, what was to happen in the future. Representatives of Dhamma and Kashmir reiterated the view that our association will then just be based on the terms of the instrument of accession. It was a this state that the Constitution position was determined. The representatives of the Jama Kashmir state reiterated the view of our association within the issue based on the terms of the instrument of accession. It was also made clear that while the accession of Dhamu and Kashmir state within there was complete, in fact, and law to the extent of the subjects enumerated in this instrument. The autonomy of the state will regard to all other subjects outside the ambit of the instrument of accession. It will be preserved. The events, a good deal of confused thinking and uninformaticity system is the intelligence that some interested people, I would like to point out that the Constitution has confined the scope and jurisdiction of the union past the terms of the instrument of exception with a proviso, and they may be extended to such as the president, the president, the neighbor, or the specified with the guidance of the gentleman, Kashmir, a senator. This is Quay Malat's, the concurrently smart. The special problem facing the state was thus taken into account the the situation to send for the Jammal and Kashmir state, which would finally, would be finally competent to determine the ultimate position of the state in respect of the sphere of its accession, which would be incorporated as in the shape of permanent provisions of the constitution. That's why temporary. That's the rest really, need not trouble your logic, but need not trouble your launch. Then but it's originally power that's important page 19 PDF 19. There is a heading of engineering powers. It was agreed that while under the present Indian constitution, the residual powers vested in the center, in respect of all the states, other than Jammu and Kashmir in the case of our state, they rested in the state itself. This position is compatible, compatible with Article 370 of the constitution of India and the instrument of accession on which this article is based. We've always held that the ultimate source of sovereignty resides in the people, is therefore from the people that all paths can flow under these circumstances, which is up to the people of Kashmir through this assembly to transform more paths, mutual advantages of the custody of the union. So what happens ultimately, and I'm just, since I will come to that later, is that Parliament exercised the will of the people of Jamu and Kashmir when they have reviewed the RTA. That's what happened. They took upon themselves the Constitution responsibility of saying that we are now the legislature. We are the constituent assembly and we will exercise the will of the people of state of Jammu and Kashmir to say that the abul-gayat region. In essence, that's what happened. Is that possible constitutionally? Is that envisaged by 370? Is it not an exercise of political power without reference to 317 and can such a power be exercised in the manner that it was exercised that is a's a matter of precision. Then there is citizenship, we need not go into it, fundamental rights, we don't have to go into it. Well, there's now kindly come to list of dates again. Right, back at 42 m. Item 37 article 373 about equal 3 the PDF model 42. And I'll the way I have it is, but disobeyed. Under, say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say that I have to say This is my second contribution rate. So I had to go. 37. And the article 37 is about the three of the Constitution of the President after the recommendation of the JNGF thing. We should notification 44, Modifying 372 to include an explanation that the phrase state government meant the southern area are acting in an advice of the cons. I only note that that was done by the Constitution of the Sirmam. That's the only time that they exercise their paths. With reference to 370. On 14th of May 1954 with the concurrence of the Government of Jammu in Kashmir, the President issued the Constitution adaptation to Jammu Kashmir order 1954 which came into force on May 14, 1954. This order superseded the Constitution application to Jammu Kashmir order of 1950 which had only those limited provisions. Paragraph 2 of the said order set those provisions of the Constitution which in addition to articles one and three seventy because that order only had article one and three seven would be applicable and Other than one sorry a lot than one would be applicable to the state of jamo in Kashmir Notably a second provider was introduced into article three as applied to the state of jamo in Kashmir in the following terms provided that no bill providing for increasing or diminishing the area. This is also very important of the state of Jamo Kashmir or altering the name of boundary of that state shall be introduced in parliament without the consent of the legislature of that state. So the logic knows mother's are three, they can change the boundaries. What happened in this case was not that they changed the boundaries, mothers. They converted it into a union territory, which is the other problem at the issue, which of course we'll have to argue later. You can change the boundaries of a state, you can, you can bifurcate the boundaries of a large state into smaller states, but never in the history of this country as a state been converted into a union territory. You can't have all of the opposition in a union territory tomorrow. I'm just finding some assurance that for a 70 election being held the Moon Kashmir will be a state. That's true, but what they have converted into a Union Treaty as of now. I mean, I think they will add under the article for the Moon Kashmir, there was a special provision that they had to be consented to. That was also not done. So, Malar's, you move away from representative democracy and got it into a union territory or direct tool. You do away with way with representing democracy. And five years have passed. Every day we hear, we are going to soon have elections. But there has to be a constitutional basis for doing this, mother. And kindly note one thing, in 2008, 2019, there were parliamentary elections in the state of Jemont, Kishvir. In 2019, May, three months after this, this happened on the 6th of August, September, October, November, December, May, you have parliamentary elections. So you can vote parliamentary elections, but you will not hold state elections. Well, that's, we're moving away, but that's to another issue altogether. So, Malat, then, then, 39, 17, 11, 1956, the constituent assembly of Jammu in Keshmeet, and exercise of the constituent pass approved and adopted the constitution of Jammu in Keshmeet. Which is why I started up with the proposition that the concept of a constituent assembly is a political exercise. That political authority, that political body, can decide of the future of the state. Could have decided on the future of the state. That's a political decision. You want to aggregate 370 aggregates 370. You want to go integration to India completely. Say we don't need the constitution. But that's a political act. That political act cannot be exercised by parliament, by legislative body. Because that legislative body is controlled by the constitution and its functions are controlled by the constitution. It can't go beyond that. Which is why I made that statement in the beginning. Then worth 40. The Constitution of Jamo and Kashmir 1957 came into force on January 26, 1957. By means of this Constitution, the people of the state of Jammu and Kashmir have excellently resolved the presence of the accession of this state of India, which took place on 26th day of October 1947 to further define the existing relationship of the state to the Union of India as an integral part there of that's declared in the constitution. If nobody can question that, nobody needs questions that, nobody can say that we were not, we were not saying that we were not an integral part of India. Article 1 applies and the constitution defined that relationship. And having defined that relationship, you can't just just select. Section five of the Constitution of Dhamu and Kashmir provided that the legislative part of the state extended to all matters except those with respect to which parliament had part to make laws for the state under the Constitution of India as applicable. Sorry, as a, to the state of Jammu in Kashmir, legislative part in the state were to live with the legislative assembly and the legislative council significantly section 147 which dealt with the amendments to the Constitution of Jammu in Kashmir provided that no bill or amendment seeing to change the provisions of the Constitution of India as they applied to Jamo and Kashmir would be introduced or moved in either of the state legislation. We had no authority once the Constitution had come into force and the orders passed. There on 21, 11 1964, the Constitution application to Jamu Kashmir, third amendment order of 1964, that is CO71 which amended the 54 order, made article 356 applicable to the state with man- that the expression included the constitution sorry sorry. It's included the constitution of diamountry. Included. Included the constitution of the amoeuvres. I am wasting. You can just put on this. Volume 3 you have all the orders. This you have now made your point on this. So all the orders. I'm not going I'm not asking your log shift. I'm not going to read it. We're not going to go into all this. 54 orders are there around 54 orders. d 1, d 2 or d d 2 or d 1 d 2, d 1 d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 2, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 1, d 50 order of 54 order and then a man matched to the 54 order. That's what it is. 42. Yeah, my is it nested in my load is same. That out. you you I come 43. Yes. The watch is on my speedier 40 fold. The Kashmir accord, now that's a political document record 75 was entered into between the government of India and the government of Jammu and Kashmir and it laws one of the airport. The relationship of the state of Jammu in Kashmir with the union was to continue to be governed by Article 370 of the Constitution. Now kindly note whether the temporary provision was over. Still be governed. Why was it required to say it is to be governed if it is a permanent feature? Sorry. Why was there a requirement? 27 to say this will continue to govern when it was a permanent feature. Whether it is also reiterated is a residual part of the state. That is not the only thing that I have with Steve Korn. It is just a reiteration of the position that was accepted by the government of India throughout, which is the constitutional provision, position. After all, it's a political accord, Malatz. I mean, it has no legal basis that way, but it tends to be of the intent of the signature is Malatz. Tell me, political change at that time. Yes, I know that. I know that. Although, in anyNK75 is a momentous time and history of this country. Luckily, I was out of the country, but that's why. Yes, yes. You could. you you And they were ultimately 14 years. The background is, Mother's, that whenever he came out he was saying that, no, no, give us a ton of me, give us a ton of me. Which Which is in that context that the appodals there that you can't get out of C70. That's really the background of it. Because he was put in jail, even by Mrs. Gandhi. Some of the rest of the list of dates, kindly now see come to straight to PDF 47. On 29th of March 2017, then of course the clamoring began remove 372 away with 372. That's a separate issue. We might not concern a little bit. member of parliament, Ratna, they not raise the question whether the Minister of Law and Justice has to whether the government proposes to amend the remove 370 related to Jammu and Kashmir or the Neo future. If so, details there are not the reason therefore, whether this will help in providing equitable justice with the people of the state and if so, the details may not be minister of state and law and justice. That's so, and so it presents there is no such proposal and a consideration. The only proposal is that only proposal, the law of no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no is themselves, all the powers and functions of the government of the state. Such a proclamation would in terms of 92 to 5 required the concurrence of the President of the India under 1923 would cease to operate six months after it was issued. On June 22, 2018, the governor with the concurrence for the President issued a proclamation of the 92 declaring Coverner's vote in the state. This is important. Now we're coming to the President controversy, we can do the immoral murder. We can then continue to march. Keep the obliged. POPPING